# Hardening Wireless Routers and Access Points
### Administrative Interface
- Interface that a router or a network device such as a wireless access point has to perform administration tasks, such as configuring SSIDs, pre-shared keys, password protection, beaconing, etc.
- It's a very important key place to protect. Wrong people who has access to this panel are able to do malicious intended actions that jeopardize the CIA of a network.
- **KEY POINT AHEAD - What can you do to harden a wireless connection:**
  - Replace the default password with a hard to guess one. It must be something you have not used before, a combination of a string of characters and symbols, numbers. Combination of UPPER CASE and lower case letters.
  - If the network has it available, integrate a multifactor access mechanism. MFA allows different authenticating mechanisms to act as one, such as biometric data, or something that you have, or somewhere you are; along with a pre-shared key.
  - When connecting from the admin PC to a SOHO administrative interface, make sure to only use secure protocols that encrypts data exchanging, such as HTTPS or if connecting to the CLI, make sure to use SSH instead of Telnet.
  - Administrator of SOHO networks are meant to offer access control and user rules granularly. Only allow each member of a network to perform exactly the minimum they need to perform certain task or activity. Also, consider using intrusion prevnetion and detection to monitor and prevent any login attempt that of course, may look suspicious.
  - Last but not least, allow logging and auditing reports to have a book with any event that occurs within your SOHO.

### Updates
- Firmware is code embedded into a device to help with its functionalities.
- **KEY POINT AHEAD - :**
  -  Firmware updates includes security patches that addresses vulnerabilities. With this, you can protect your device from unauthorized access or handling. Firmware updates also includes software and code improvement and fixes that if not done, can potentially affect the performance, stability and compatibility of devices.
  -  Without having an updated firmware, a SOHO device may not be elegible anymore to support or more security updates. In case of troubleshooting, it can be harder as the device is just outdated. Also, regulations from governments, third party actors or any other party may require that the firmware is up to date for whatever the reasons are.
  -  Cybersecurity threats are constantly evolving, and maintaining an updated firmware is required to keep yourself secure against these threats. Manufacturers often offer security update patches to the firmware and these can be valuable.

# Wireless Encryption Standards
### WEP
- **KEY POINT AHEAD - :**
  - Wired Equivalent Protocol. It's the first protocol ever created to protect Wi-Fi networks. It encrypts data exchanges with a pre-shared key, although this pre-shared key is just 40 or 104 bits. It has several security flaws and vulnerabilities. It's not recommended to use this encryption standard, there are more secure standards such as WPA, WPA2 or WPA3.
### WPA
- **KEY POINT AHEAD - :**
  - Wi-Fi Protected Access. It's the protocol that follows WEP, it has patches all the WEP vulnerabilities. This encryption standard uses a protocol called Temporal Key Integrity Protocol, that creates a key for each packet being sent and also offer integrity checks to prevent data from being tampered. It's more secure than WEP, yet it's vulnerable and has several exploits. Just as it's for WEP, it's recommended not to use this standard and go with more secure standards such as WAP2 or WAP3.
### WPA2
- **KEY POINT AHEAD - :**
  - Wi-Fi Protected Access 2. It offers a widely improved authentication and encryption systems. This time, it uses the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) to encrypt data exchanges instead of the TKIP. It offers a four-handshake system to secure the key exchange of devices. It's still got some vulnerabilities, yet it's the most recommended. It's vulnerable to some attack methods such as KRACK.
### WPA3
- **KEY POINT AHEAD - :**
  - Wi-Fi Protected Access 3. It has enhanced the encryption and authentication strength of its predecessors WPA and WPA2. WPA3 offers an individualized data encryption system, so if one systems encryption is compromised, the others remains intact. It strenghtens the initial process of key exchange, making it less vulnerable to brute-force or dictionary attacks. It also offers an easier device setup, reducing chances of misconfigurations. It's the newest standard addition, yet not every device supports it.

Comparison between WEP, WPA, WPA2 & WPA3. Order is SECURITY PROTOCOL | ENCRYPTION | KEY LENGTH | AUTHENTICATION METHOD | NOTES
- WEP - Wired Equivalent Protocol | RC4 | 40 or 104 bits | Pre-shared key | Vulnerable, not recommended. Susceptible to attacks.
- WPA - Wi-Fi Protected Access | TKIP | 128 bits | Personal mode (pre-shared key) or Enterprise mode (802.1X with EAP or RADIUS) | Less vulnerable that WEP, yet vulnerable to a lot of attacks, not recommended.
- WPA2 - Wi-Fi Protected Access 2 | AES-CCMP | 128 bits | Personal Mode (pre-shared key) or Enterprise Mode (802.1X with EAP or RADIUS) | Has the previous vulnerabilities covered. Uses a better encryption algorithm (AES).
- WPA3 - Wi-Fi Protected Access 3 | AES-CCMP or SAE | 192/256 bits | Enhanced Open, Personal Mode (Simultaneous Authentication of Equals) OR Enterprise Mode (802.1X with EAP or RADIUS) | Most recommended one after WPA2, not every device supports it though. Individualized data encryption, better and safe device initial configuration. 

# Wireless Authentication
- Authentication, as we've seen before is an important topic and matter on every accessible system. Wireless authentication is even more important. Having proper authentication methods prevent unauthorized people from accessing the network and potentially violating or jeopardizing the CIA of a network.
- Also, authentication allows accounting, which allows an administrator to uniquely identify any action or event. With this, an authorized user can't deny their performed actions.

### Personal Mode
- **KEY POINT AHEAD - :**
  - In the networking terms, personal mode authentication is the authentication of a user or device to a wireless network. Networks are secured using one of the previously mentioned encryption standards such as WPA, WPA2 or WPA3.
  - With this personal mode, you authenticate yourself against a wireless network using a pre-shared key (PSK) previously configured in the wireless router or the access point. The networking device has a pre-configured key that the user or device trying to access the network have to know. The device attempts to connect to the router and if the pre-shared key that the user/device typed matches the configured pre-shared key, the device will be granted access.
  - It's hard for organizational infrastructures to use Personal Mode. Accountability is hard, everyone is using the same PSK so there's no granular control over the users.

### Enterprise Mode
- **KEY POINT AHEAD - :**
  - It's an authentication mode used by larger enterprises, organization or businesses. It has several features and improvements such as centralized management, user auditing through logging, or the ability to integrate with other infrastructure device.
  - Enterprise Mode requires an centralized management server to handle authentication, such as RADIUS, EAP or 802.1X:
    - **RADIUS - Remote Authentication Dial-In User:** Central server to handle authentication and authorization of users trying to login to a network.
    - **EAP - Extensible Authentication Protocol:** Authentication framework that allows the expansion of various authentication methods such as username/password systems, digital certificates, smart codes, key fobs, etc. It's perfect to meet the most suitable authentication method for an organization.
    - **802.1X:** It's a standard authentication protocol that works with EAP. The basic meaning is that every device connect to a network will be enforced access control policies. Every device using 802.1X must be authenticated to access the network.
- Enterprise mode can also use MFA to enhance the authentication process.

**KEY POINT AHEAD - :** Features of both Personal and Enterprise mode. Order is FEATURE | PERSONAL MODE | PRIVATE MODE
- Authentication | Pre-shared key | 802.1X with EAP or RADIUS.
- User management | Limited control and individual PSK usage | Centralized user management and authentication server.
- Security | Shared PSK, vulnerable to various attacks | Robust security, it supports various security methods.
- Granularity | Limited access-control over users | Fine-grained access control over user and policies.
- Scalability | Suitable for small-scale businesses | Suitable for large-scale businesses and organizations.
- Guest networks | Limited segregation options | Supports different dedicated guest networks.
- User Accountability | Difficult to trace specific user actions | Provides detailed log and accountability for each user.
- Integration | No integration with external directories | Integration with existing infrastructure devices.
- Complexity | Simple setup and configuration | More complex setup and configuration.
- Compliance | May not meet specific regulatory requirements | Supports regulatory requirements with stronger authentication methods.
  
### WPA3 Enhanced Open
- WPA and WPA2 has both Personal and Enterprise mode, but WPA3 has an Enhanced Open mechanism.
- WPA3 Enhanced is for public networks and uses the Opportunistic Wireless Encryption (OWE). It's designed for open spaces such as resturants, hotels, open spaces.
- It uses 256-bit authenticated encryption.
- 384-bit key derivation and confirmation.
- 256-bit management for frame protection.
- It doesn't provide authentication, it just encrypts information being transferred.

# Wi-Fi Protected Setup, SSIDs and MAC Address Filtering
- **THE WHOLE SECTION IS A KEY TOPIC AHEAD - :**
### Wi-Fi Protected Setup
- WPS - It's a network security standard. Offers the user a more friendly method to authenticate against a wireless networking device through PINs, Push-Buttons and Near Field Communication (NFC).
- It has offered various vulnerabilities, such as PIN brute-force attacks.
- It's recommended to disable the WPS standard directly from the router configuration, either it being PIN based or NFC Based. With this, you prevent receiving attacks that exploits into your private network.
### SSID
- Service Set Identifier - It's an unique name that a wireless network receives to differentiate from the rest. This is just a name to identify the network and hiding/not broadcasting the SSID can add a layer of security if used along with authentication and encryption mechanisms.
- Here are some ways how SSID can enhance network security:
  - **Network Segmentation:** By creating different SSIDs, you can separate and differentiate traffic from the various networks, such as employee networks, IoT networks, sandboxing networks, etc. Basically you segment and separate traffic based on the SSID.
  - **Access Control:** Access Control policies can be matches/assigned to different SSIDs based on the need of each network. With this, you can apply different access control policies to each specific network SSID.
  - **Resource Allocation:** By assigning SSIDs to distinct resources or sensitive data, you can increas the bandwidth or importance of the SSID in the network. Also, it's possible to have a stringent security measures for that specific SSID.
  - **Compliance Requirements:** SSID helps comply with regulated requirements from regions. It helps segment and isolate networks to follow privacy protection regulations.
  - **Client Isolation:** Multiple SSIDs provides segmentation of networks, this meaning that you can limit the reachability from different SSIDs between each other. Like, different SSIDs can't communicate with the other. This prevents lateral movements.
  - **Guest Networks:** Creating a guest SSID limits the traffic and enforces policies to guests in a network, isolating them from private or inner networks.
  - **Ease of Management:** It's easier for network administrators to troubleshoot, monitor or analyze based in a SSID-basis.
### MAC Address Filtering
- This filtering is based on creating a whitelist or blacklist of MAC addresses permited or denied to access a network.
- This method can still be bypassed by spoofing MAC Addressses.
- Yet, it's better to have this that not to have it.

# Common Wireless Network Threats and Attacks
### Rogue Access Points and Evil Twins
- A **roguess access point** is a networking device deployed in a network without authorized permission. It can lure people into connecting to them and provide them with malicious activity. Or it could've been deployed by insiders without proper knowledge that this can affect the security of a network.
- It's never good to have a Rogue AP into your private network, this can led to unauthorized access, eavesdropping or traffic filtering. Network administrators must do everything in their hands, use their tools and solutions to monitor, detect and remove any Rogue AP.
- Rogue APs can be deployed by attackers in open spaces, or also private networks where attackers can explot vulnerabilities to gain certain advantage.
- A **evil twin** attack is 100% malicious. It's a legit-looking wireless network that lures users into connecting. Attackers use open tools that helps them copy the SSID and encryption/security mechanisms used in a legitimate network. Once the user is connected, the attacker can use a packet sniffer to capture data and potentially jeopardize the confidentiality.
- To protect against these, users may need to be educated and verify the source of the network provider. Also, they should connect to not-known networks using encryption, tunneling techniques, VPNs, or anything that protects the data exchange.

**KEY TABLE IS AHEAD - :** Order is CHARACTERISTIC | ROGUE AP | EVIL TWIN   
- Scope | Any unauthorized network device created in a network, maliciously or non-maliciously | Purposely SSID created with malicious intent.
- Intent | May or may not be intentional | Always aiming maliciously. Created to deceive and exploit devices connected to them.
- Deception | Employes various techniques, such as broadcasting signal in private channels | Involves cloning a SSID and its encryption mechanisms to maliciously interact with victims.
- User Interaction | May be recognized by the user if anything is unfamiliar | Desigend to deceive users, making it harder for users to know if it's a legit or fake connection.
- Security Risk | Depends on whether the AP has been maliciously deployed or not. Yet, it contains risk to the CIA | Designed to interact maliciously with the connected devices. Its intention is 100% malicious.

### War Driving
- Technique used to discover and map wireless devices by searching them through Wi-Fi enabled devices. Main purpose is to identify and recognize possible vulnerable networks.
- During the war driving, the attacker attempts to find SSIDs that can be recognized to have poor authentication PSKs, outdated encryption protocols, even open wireless networks.

### Wireless Password Cracking
- Based on attackers attempting to guess passwords based on dictionary or brute-force attacks. This with the intention to gain unauthorized access to networks with poor authentication protection.
- Methods employed:
  - **Brute-Force Attack:** An attacker attempts every possible password against a network, if the password is weak then it's easy for the attack to be concluded. It's still time-consuming.
  - **Dictionary Attack:** Attackers use a list of already known common passwords that people tends to use. It's faster than brute-force but takes a list of known passwords.
  - **Rainbox Table Attack:** Same as the dictionary but this time, it's comparing generated hashes with a hashed database to look for matches.
  - **WPS Pin Attacks:** If a Wi-Fi network uses PIN-WPS for authentication, attackers can try various passwords against the WPS until one matches.

### Protecting Yourself from Wireless Attacks
- **Use strong encryption methods:** Implement secure standards with unique and strong passwords.
- **Use strong passwords:** Avoid commong words and easily guessable information.
- **Enable network lockout policies:** Limit the times an user can be wrong about login information to limit the number of brute-force attacks.
- **Disable SSID broadcasting:** Hide the networks SSIDs to prevent war drivings.
- **Disable WPS:** Unless it's necessary, disable all possible WPS usage from your network.
- **Encrypt Guest Network Traffic:** All the network traffic must be encrypted, including the guest network traffic.
- **Regularly update firmware and apply security patches:** This helps protect the network better.
- **Implement intrusion detection systems:** Including WIDSs can help the monitoring and identify suspicious network traffic and rogue APs.
- **Perform regular security audits:** It's always good to include security assessment and penetration testing on networks.
- **Monitor network activity:** Regular monitoring of logs and activity from events of a network helps with preventing unauthorized access attempts.
- **Educate users:** This is the first line of defense. Verifying the legitimacy of networks and connecting to untrusted network using more appropriate networks is important to protect against attacks.
- **Use VPNs:** When connecting to untrusted networks, it's important you use VPNS to encrypt all data exchange securely.
