# Virtual Private Networks
- Allows to create a secure private network across a public network, often less secure.
- When establishing VPN connections, two devices normally in different geographical locations establish a safe/secure tunnel over the untrusted network.
  - Then the devices can share information through this VPN.
  - Also, VPNs offer data encrypting/decrypting, IP masking, and integrity checksums.
- Benefits of this rerouting and data encryption:
  - **Confidentiality:** It enables confidentiality in which it encrypts data before it's sent on the VPN tunnel and decrypts it at the end of the VPN tunnel, this way, in case that the traffic is intercepted it can't be read.
  - **Integrity:** VPN offers hashing algorithms such as SHA-256 and SHA-512. Data is hashed before being sent over the VPN tunnel, then attached to the data. Once it reaches the end of the VPN Tunnel, the receiver then checks that the sent data hash is the same as the hash sent with the data.
  - **Authentication:** VPNs offer authentication before any start of data transactions.
  - **Anti-replay protection:** VPNs offer sequencing of data being sent through the VPN tunnel, in case that attackers try to replay any transmitted data, the VPN will terminate the session and drop any sent packet.

### Site-to-Site
- Also called network-to-network or branch-to-brach VPNs.
- Establishes a VPN tunnel to securely transport information between two different geographical locations/two different network infrastructure.
- With this, you can securely send information like exchanging information in private networks.
- Example of how would this connection work:
  - For a secure connection to happen, there must be two VPN handles or routers, which will serve as the gateway of the VPN communication.
  - Authentication between the two must happen too.
  - Once the two are placed, they'll start exchanging relevant information just like encryption/decryption algorithm, share the hashing algorithms, share the cryptographic keys and others.
  - After this has happened, they can establish connection and start transporting data.
  - Data will be encrypted at the starting end of the connection, and decrypted at the end of the connection by the gateway routers.
  - This works as if both infrastructures were working on the same local network.

### Remote-Access
- Also called client-to-network VPN or remote VPN.
- It serves the function of a VPN established between a client and a private corporate network.
- With this, the client can securely connect to the private corporate network.
- Remote-Access VPNs makes the client function as if it is connected directly to the local corporate network.
- Example of how would this connection work:
  - For a secure connection to happen, a client device (such as a smartphone, laptop, workstation, tablet) and a corporate VPN server or gateway should establish a VPN tunnel.
  - Once the tunnel is created, authentication must happen between the devices. The client will authenticate with the VPN server or gateway with credentials.
  - Once this happens, the VPN encrypts data before it's send over the private tunnel and decrypted at the end of the tunnel.
  - Once a connection is established, the client can navigate the corporate networks securely and access resources, systems, contact hosts, etc.

### Cisco AnyConnect
- Secure remote-access VPN software that secures communication between the client and a VPN server.
- It supports the various OSs.
- Also, it's part of the Cisco Secure Client.
- Key functionalities of Cisco AnyConnect:
  - **Secure VPN connectivity:** Ensure confidentiality and integrity as Cisco AnyConnect offers secure transmission protocols such as IPSec and SSL/TLS to establish connection between the client and the VPN server.
  - **Multifactor Authentication (MFA):** Enhance authentication by having the Cisco AnyConnect software using multiple authentication methods such as username and passwords, digital certificates and third-party software for keys.
  - **Endpoint Security Posture Assessment:** Cisco AnyConnect can make endpoint security assessment to check that the sending device is secure and possess the necessary appliances, such as an antivirus software, firewall settings, etc.
  - **Web Security and Malware Protection:** AnyConnect can provide web security by web-content filtering and blocking access to specified sites. Also, it can analyze downloaded files for malware.
  - **Network Visibility and Monitoring:** AnyConnect let the administrator know the devices connected, their activity and take action if something pops up. Withs allows troubleshooting and security monitoring.

### IPsec
- Internet Protocol Security.
  - It's a framework that allows to establish secure connections over the IP protocol.
  - It's used in Remote-Access VPNs and Site-to-Site VPNs too.
- IPsec operates at the layer 3 of the OSI model.
  - It allows various protocols and cryptographic mechanisms used to protect data being sent through this layer.
  - It can secure anything using IP connections or local connections such as Local Area Networks or Wide Area Networks too.
- Main components of the IPsec are protocols, confidentiality, integrity, modes and key management:
  - **Protocols:** Two protocols exists for IPsec and they're used based on what's needed:
    - **Authentication Header (AH):** Provides integrity, authentication and protection against replay attacks. It ensures that data has not been tampered during transmission and that the sessions are the correct ones. It's used when privacy isn't a concern, for example transmitting data inside trusted networks.
    - **Encapsulaing Security Payload (ESP):** It provides confidentiality, integrity, authentication and protection against replay attacks. It encrypts data before its transmission to secure against eavesdropping or captured-by-attackers data. It's ideal for communications that needs privacy.
    - **NOTE:** Because ESP provides more data protection, it's widely used to establish VPN sessions through untrusted networks.
  - **Confidentiality:** As mentioned earlier, IPsec provides confidentiality mechanisms such as encryption systems and cryptographic key assignments. Building a VPN connection includes you configuring which protocols you want to use for encryption and key assignments.
  - **Integrity:** Integrity is also mentioned earlier. When configuring a VPN connection through IPsec, data is hashed and the hash is send along with the data. When the corresponding IPsec peer receives the data, hashes it and compares it with the received pre-defined hash. If it matches, then the packet passes to the rest of the layer, otherwise it's dropped.
  - **Modes:**
    - **Transport Mode:** Only the payload of an IP packet is encrypted, the IP header remains the same. Usually used in host-to-host network connections.
    - **Tunnel Mode:** The original IP packet is encapsulated inside another IP packet to protect both the data being send and the senders IP. It's user with Remote-Access or Site-To-Site VPNs, where data must be all encrypted before being sent.
  - **Key Management:** IPsec requires a mechanisms for securely exchanging symmetric keys or automated protocols for key exchanging suck as Internet Key Exchange (IKE) or IKEv2.

# Firewalls
- Device placed between internal and external networks.
  - It can analyze incoming and outgoing traffic.
  - Firewalls have a set of rules and policies to perform on analyzed packets.
  - Firewalls can prevent unauthorized access, malware injection, data exfiltration, etc.
- Reasons why Firewalls are an option to consider:
  - **Network Security:** Firewalls are a strong line of defense. Firewalls detect traffic, analyze it and detect any malicious attempt of malicious traffic or unauthorized data, and performs a certain response action based on the rules and policies.
  - **Access Control:** Firewalls allows you to block traffic based on different access controls such as protocols, ports, source/dest IP addresses, application type, etc.
  - **Threat Prevention:** It can detect malicious attempts to inject malware, such as virus, worms, trojans or intrusion attempts. They work with IDSs and IPSs, application-level gateways, stateful packet inspection, etc.
  - **Network Monitoring:** Firewalls provide various log and report functions, in which network administrators can provide security monitoring to networks. With these functions, network adminstrators can check for blocked/dropped packets, malicious attempts, attempts to gain unauthorized access, etc.
  - **Content Filtering:** Firewalls also provides content filtering by analyzing the traffic outgoing of a network. It can provide filtering of web sites, applications or other stuff that needs of internet connection. Also, they can prevent data exfiltration.
  - **Virtual Private Network Support:** A lot of Firewalls includes VPN support. VPNs are private tunnel networks on top of untrusted networks. Firewalls with VPN support included protects, encrypt, hashes and makes sure that data is secured from the outside.
  - **Compliance and Regulatory Requirements:** We said before that compliance rules and regulations are established according to each region, it varies. In this case, Firewalls fills the blank space that regulation demands. It's often required to secure the protection and confidentiality of private data.
  - **Scalability and Network Segmentation:** Firewalls allows the segmentation of networks and applies proper rules and policies to these network segments. Also, it prevents lateral movements of attackers, reduces the attacker surface, etc.

### NGFW
- Next Generation Firewall.
  - NGFWs build on traditional firewalls functions. It adds up more value and enhances security on Firewalls.
- Advancements of NGFWs over a normal Firewall:
  - **Deep packet inspection:** NGFWs analyzes both the header of a packet and the payload inside this packet. With this, the NGFW is able to detect applications and protocols, and also prevent malicious content from reaching networks.
  - **Application awareness and prevention:** NGFWs is able to detect application and raise awareness over it. NGFW can force granular policies to control the application usage.
  - **Intrusion Prevention System (IPS) Integration:** NGFW is also able to perform IPSs functions and analyze data based on a configuration, which includes a predefined set of rules or any malicious attempt.
  - **Advanced Threat Detection and Prevention:** NGFWs leverage security mechanisms and prevention mechanisms such as antiviruses, antimalware, sandboxing, etc. With this you can reach a whole lot of new preventions, including complex malware attempts such as APTs, 0days, etc.
  - **Idendity and user-based policies:** NGFW is also able to work with identity management centralization, such as Active Directory. It's able to detect users and assign policies and permissions based on the identity recognition.
  - **Integration with Security Ecosystem:** NGFW makes it possible to connect with other security ecosystems such as SIEM or any other tool and solution that helps enhance the security.

### Cisco Firepower Next Generation Firewall
- Security solution that enhances even more the protection against malware, intrusion detection and prevention. It provides organizations with enhanced visibility, control and management over more complex threats.
- Enhanced features:
  - **Firewall Functionality:** This solution is able to work as a traditional firewall, analyzing packets based on a predefined set of rules and policies, analyzing protocols, applications, ports, etc.
  - **Intrusion Prevention System:** Cisco Firepower NGFW includes a strong and enhanced prevention system that detects and block any known or unknown threats based on signature-based detection, anomaly detection and behavioral-based detection.
  - **Advanced Malware Protection (AMP):** Cisco Firepower NGFW is able to work along with AMP, with this threat intelligence system, more complex attacks can be detected such as zero-days, fileless attacks, etc.
  - **Application Visibility and Control:** Cisco Firepower NGFW allows deeper application and network visibility. Also, allows recognizition for granular policies on these applications. With this, you can improve network performances, enforce policies, etc.
  - **URL Filtering:** The solution provides administrators with capabilites to filter content, websites and URLs based on predefined rules. This allows the protection of network against malicious websites or URLs.
  - **Network-based malware detection:** This solution also provides analysis of network communications that could be malicious. Even after the malware is in the network, it analyzes network traffic, command-and-control and other indicators of compromise to networks.
  - **Threat Intelligence and Security Analytics:** Cisco Firepower NGFW has a link with Cisco Talos, a threat intelligence research solution that contains a lot of analytics and research about malware. With this, the Cisco Firepower NGFW provides a more up-to-date protection on malware.
  - **Network segmentation and virtualization:** This solution is able to create various logical firewalls inside a physical device, allowing network segmentation and isolation.
  - **Centralized Management:** The Cisco Firepower NGFW is managed using Cisco Firepower Management Control (FMC), a solution designed to centralize device management, security monitoring and allows reporting through Cisco Firepower NGFWs.

# Access Control Lists
- Set of rules and policies enforced to network traffic that can be configured to deny or allow traffic based on certain paremeters, such as source/destination IPs, protocols, subnets, etc. These are normally applied to network devices such as routers and firewalls.

### Key Aspects and Uses of Access Control Lists
- ACLs can filter traffic specifically based on granular limitations such as IP addresses, transport-layer protocols, ports, protocols, etc. With these, you reach a very comfortable limitation of the network traffic over specified interfaces.
- ACLs allows you to create and manage permissions over a certain group or users of a network.

### ACL Entries
- ACL perform actions based on a predefined set of rules, called Access Control Entry (ACEs).
- It takes a condition and a match to perform certain action.
  - Like "if packets from x ip, perform x action".
- Each ACE within an ACL contains the following fields:
  - **Subject:** Entity to which the limitation applies. It can be any network entity that is applied to the ACE, it can be a workstation, an ip address, a network device, etc.
  - **Permissions:** Establishes what is the subject able or unable to do. It can be either write, read, execute, modify, etc. It basically tells the subjet the boundaries it can reach over an entry.
  - **Object:** The Object of an ACE represents the exact resource or target which the ACE is applied to.
  - **Conditions:** Conditions in an ACE represents what makes something able or unable to be performed.

### Standard ACL
- Filter network traffic based only on the source IP address.
- Way less complex or hard.
- These don't filter network traffic based on protocols, ports, destination IPs, etc.
- **Identified by numbers from 1 to 99, or from 1300 to 1999.**
- EX:
  - access-list 10 permit 192.168.0.0 0.0.255.255
  - This ACL only allows traffic from the range of 192.168.0.0 to 192.168.255.255 IP address.

### Extended ACLs.
- Filters network traffic in a more granular way than Standard ACLs.
- It's a bit more complex.
- These can filter network traffic based un protocols, ports, destinations IPs, time, etc.
- **Identified by numbers from 100 to 199, or from 2000 to 2699.**
- EX:
  - access-list 100 permit tcp any host 192.168.0.10 eq 80.
  - Permits all TCP traffic that is directed from any source to the specific host of 192.168.0.10 where the port always equals 80.

### When to use each one?
- Depending on the level of granularity that you need.
- More complex access controls that requires of more granularity, such as which protocol, or specify which destination IP source it's using or other, requires an Excteded ACL.

### ACL Evaluation
- ACLs contain a list of ACEs that will execute if a match happens.
- If you have let's say 10 ACEs, the first one to be executed will stop the rest.
- They're evaluated top-down, which means that the same order the ACEs were applied is the same order they will be evaluated.
- Also, if none of the 10 rules are met then the packet is dropped. This happens because of the implicit deny all.

# Network Access Control
- From the network standing point, NAC is a framework which intention is to protect the access of only authenticated and authorized individuals to the network infrastructure.
- NAC is usually comformed by software and hardware devices to properly enforce access control policies to network infrastructures:
  - **Endpoint Authentication:** NAC verifies the standing point of devices trying to connect to a network device, such as valid digital certificates, valid credentials or other authentication mechanisms.
  - **Access Control Policies:** NAC offers a granular control policy to be executed depending on which device, operating system, patch level, antivirus status or other complex conditions are met.
  - **Health Assessment:** NAC verifies the health posture of network devices and depending on their status, such as antivirus health status, up-to-date patches or other security mechanisms; and based on this, those devices are placed in isolated networks or replaced with other devices until they're healthy in security terms to the network infrastructure security.
  - **Network Segmentation:** NAC enables network segmentation through subnets or VLANs. The main intention is to remove the possibility of lateral movements or contain threat reachability.
  - **Threat Mitigation:** NAC is able to include security tools such as IPSs or SIEM systems to enhance security. With this, a network may have immedite threat detection and prevention to block and prevent threat and risks.
  - **Guest Access Management:** NAC solutions are able to provide management of guest devices trying to access a network. These solutions can even offer registering sites to guests and store them temporarily in a database, also manage their permissions to be very limited.
  - **Centralized Management:** NAC offers centralized management solutions to monitor networks, handle the security entities, enforce policies, etc.
- One example of a NAC solution is the Cisco Identity System Engine (ISE).
  - It's a solution that offers centralized managenent, policy enforcement and authentication process to networking devices.
- Overview of how would an ISE act as a NAC solution:
  - **Authentication and Authorization:** Cisco ISE is able to verify authentication mechanisms and provide authorization to networks. It can use the various authentication mechanisms such as 802.1X, MAC Authentication Bypass, or Web Authentication.
  - **Endpoint profiling:** ISE is able to detect and gather information from their connected devices and make decisions based on that information.
  - **Policy Enforcement:** Based on the endpoint profiling and authentication or authorized devices connected through an ISE, the ISE can enforce policies granularly or widely.
  - **Guest Access:** Cisco ISE provides a useful guest management. It can create and assign guests with limited access, and create limited-access accounts to store in a database. After certain time, accounts are deleted. Also, Cisco ISE provides with segregating access of these guest accounts with more internal or important networks. 
  - **Posture Assessment:** Provides healthy assessment of networking devices to verify their security systems and make decisions based on these.
  - **Centralized Management and Reporting:** Management of NAC devices and the policies being enforced. It also has the ability to report logs of everything that happens in a network such as authentication attempts, possible malicious joining attempts, etc.
  - **Integration with networking devices:** Cisco ISE enables the use of various networking devices such as switches and wireless controles, which are used to enhance authentication by the usage of RADIUS or 802.1X protocols.
  - **Threat-centric NAC:** Cisco ISE integrates with Cisco Threat Intelligence Solutions to have a better decision-making with more updated and known possible malicious attempts of network logins.
  - **Integration with Security Ecosystem:** Cisco ISE can integrate with other security solutions to enhance the security of organizations.
  - **Context-based access control:** Cisco ISE allows decision-making and policy enforcing based on more granular aspects of security such as user identify, access type, location, time of the day or behavior.
  - **TrustSec Integration:** Cisco ISE integrates the usage of the TrustSec framework. This enables group-based access-control and segmentation.
  - **BYOD Enablement:** Cisco ISE supports BYOD. It allows the employee devices to prepare before connecting to the network, such as registrarion portals, digital certificates provisioning, etc.

# REVIEW QUESTIONS
1- A, B, C
2- D
3- A, B, D, E
4- B, D