# Malware Variants
- Malware means malicious software.
  - Any malware with malicious intent.
- Types of malware:
  - **Virus** - Designed to cause harm, like deleting files, removing operating systems completely, or anything that is bad for the host. It's malicious code introduced to the victim host and lives within a document or executable file. It requires human interaction to launch its attack.
  - **Worm** - Designed with the same purpose as a *virus*, the difference here is that worms don't inject code into programs as viruses do, and they do not require human interaction to spread. It's self-replicating, and can cause havoc. It can also analize networks and spread itself through devices with the same vulnerability as the current worm host.
  - **Trojan Horse** - Designed with the same purpose as a virus or a worm, to cause harm. A trojan horse is a malware disguised in legitimate applications or files. Remote Access Trojan is a type of backdoor.
  - **Backdoor** - Malicious software that allows an attacker to remotely access the host victim. Upon installation, it will sit there executing certain tasks or functions that allows remote access, such as opening ports to allow remote connections or using "beaconing" to initiate a call for remote access to certain threat actor.
  - **Logic Bomb** - Achieves the same purpose as the previous mentioned, cause harm. What makes it a logic bomb is that for the harmful action to be performed, certain action has to happen and this will follow a certain harmful action, like deleting files upon logic bomb execution, or emptying bank accounts once they're filled. Basically a certain action must be performed for the logic bomb to perform a harmful action.
  - **Downloader** - Malicious software designed to download other malicious software. Email often have attached malicious software, upon clicking it will download other malware and you think nothing happened with the first attached file.
  - **Spammer** - Malicious software intended to send as much messages as it can to objectives. It usually carries malicious information like malware download.
  - **Key Logger** - Malware designed to capture keystrokes. Once installed, it can read and log everything that a user types on the keyboard.
  - **Rootkit** - Malware designed to provide the attacker with administrative-level access. Also, it can be used to modify what can an administrator do. Rootkits can be used to eavesdrop on users and gain remote access, create backdoors, steal information and even conceal the malware so it can't be detected.
  - **Ransomware** - Malware that once in a sytem and executed, it can encrypt all the files of the system, create copies and then ask the host victim to pay money for the encrypted data key.

# IoT Vulnerabilities
- Name given to all the latest devices that use internet connection or network connections.
  - Everyday more devices are connected to the internet.
  - This carries huge concerns for the cybersecurity field.
  - IoT devices are not often focused on security.
- Common vulnerabiliites:
  - **Using default credentials on these devices.**
    - Often devices comes with default credentials for the initial configuration.
    - Not changing them is dangerous as most of these passwords are in plaintext on the web.
  - **IoT does not provides with security patches.**
    - IoT developers do not think that these devices must be updated.
    - This carries more risk as vulnerabilities are discovered and can't be patched up.
  - **Poorly developed applications and web applications.**
    - Used to monitor, manage and even fix IoT deices.
    - Sometimes, vendors do not protect or encrypt communication protocols.
    - Interfaces may be bugged and have vulnerabilities too.
    - Poor authentication and authorization methods.
  - **Backend Systems**
    - Some backend systems do not have proper security.
    - Code vulnerabilites.
    - Network or encosystem insecurity.
    - Data not being encrypted on rest.
    - Etc.

# Distributed Denial of Service
- Attack to disturb and deny **availability**.
  - Main goal of this attack is to make services unavailable or down them.
- Some ways to put availability down:
  - Flooding servers with useless traffic that eats the resources of the server and crashes it.
  - Using TCP SYN packets, and leaving the server waiting for the TCP three-way handshake completition. This will leave plenty open waiting queries and not let wanted TCP sessions to establish. **TCP SYN Flood Attack**.
  - Make certain network devices crash that leads with other useful hosts or servers, bringing them down along.
  - Application built with a vulnerability to buffer overflow attack may become unavailable too.
  - Malware shutting down key system is also considered DoS.
  - *Anything that stops services from functioning properly.*
- Network devices has made systems a bit more secure regarding DoS.
  - With this, new attacking methods have developed.
  - Botnets (a group of host compromised by attackers.) will start performing simultaneous DoS attacks to network devices and bring them down using the power of them together. This can bring systems down.

### Botnet
- Large group of compromised computer.
- Called "Bots" or "zombies" as they're compromised by attackers.
- Attackers will beacon these bots to their command and control server.
  - C2 - CNC - C&C.
- With this, they can start the attacks.

# On-Path Attacks
- Someone stands between a communication between two parties.
  - This can be done physically or virtually.
- Their intention is to capture data and manipulate them, sometimes both.
- This can affect confidentiality.
  - Attackers without authorization are accessing data.
- And often affect integrity.
  - Attackers can also modify this data, affecting integrity.
- MAC Address (L2) spoofing attacks are often used.
  - Attacker spoofes the MAC address of a trusted network device.
  - With this, server will trust the spoofed MAC address as if it was really from a trusted source.
  - Attackers can spoof the MAC address of a router and the information sent to other networks will be going through this MAC address router, which in this case is the MAC address of the attacker.
- Rogue DHCP points.
  - DHCP are servers that provides with the needed network configuration to connect to the internet through a router.
  - Attackers can post themselves in networks as legitimate DHCP servers.
  - Attackers can be in the middle of this connection and receive DHCP requests before the legitimate DHCP server.
  - With this, attackers can set up their own desired configuration.
- You can also combine the Man In The Middle Attack with the Rogue DHCP Server.
  - Attackers set up a Rogue DHCP Server that configures devices to connect the attackers default gateway.
  - Attackers default gateway is a Wireshark server that can detect, copy and save packets before sending them to the original IP address.

# Insider Threats
- Threat that originates from the inside of an organization.
  - Often overlooked as other people may think they're trustable.
- Anything coming from the inside of organizations does not necessarly carries bad intentions.
  - Accidentally typing wrong bank transactions amounts of money is an insider threat.
  - Accidentally unplugging servers is an insider threat.
  - Also, employees may intentionally download data to USB flash drives and sell them online.
- Best way to protect from these is educating and setting policies, guidelines and rules:
  - Educate your employees about the right and wrong of information security.
  - Set policies and guidelines on how to handle data, protect it, destroy it, etc.

# Social Engineering Tactics
- Most attacks are initiated from social engineering.
  - Preventing social engineering attacks also prevents most of the following possible attacks.
### Phishing
- Email based attack.
- Target's are meant to click good-looking malware attachments or links.
  - These links often downloads malware for various purposes.
  - Can also be with the purpose of credential gathering.
- Phishing attacks are very good looking.
### Spear Phishing
- Attack with the same purpose as a phishing.
- For this instance, attackers target a specific person or group of persons.
- They target a smaller group of people with better designed phishing emails.
### Whaling
- Same as before but this time it goes for the whales of companies.
  - Higher rank individuals such as CEOs, CFO, CTO, CISO, etc.
- Basically targets high ranked people in organizations.
### Smishing
- Phishing through SMS.
- It can contain downloadable malware.
  - Often contains web sites designed to capture credentials or information.
### Piggybacking / Tailgating.
- Piggybacking
  - Unauthorized person gains access to authorized area using authorized persons' credentials.
- Tailtaing
  - Before an authorized individual closes the door behind, an attacker slips on without the authorized individual noticing.
- With piggybacking, the untrusted individual us known to be in.
- With tailgating, the untrusted individual is not known to be in.
### Malvertising
- Attackers focus on greed, curiousity and sense of urgency from humans.
- Ads good-looking that downloads malware or redirects victims to sites that can download malware, or capture information / keystrokes.

# Physical Attacks
- **Dumpster Diving:** Attackers goes through a certain individual garbage to find useful dropped information.
- **Cloning Badges:** With the right tools, attackers can clone access badges and access authorized places with them.
- **Jumping Fences:** It's a hard task to jump a fence. Various heights are built depending on the needs. Also, they can have the upper side slightly going towards the outside with barbed wire on top to prevent even more the fence violations.
- **Lock picking/lock breaking:** Attackers can use lock picking to unlock doors or even break through them.
- **Vehicle ramming:** Russians ramming your door with a BEARCAT.
- **Cable cutting:** Cable cutting to stop services, internet or anything that disturbs availability.
- **Theft:** Attackers steals assets from organizations.
- **Fire Damage / Water Damage:** Building catching fire or water leakages are considered physical attacks.

# Advanced Persisten Threats (APTs)
- Threats that remains inside of systems for certain period of time or until a logic bomb is executed.
- Mainly targets medium-to-high level organizations.
  - Although can also target small-to-medium organizations.
    - With this, they can laterally move to higher ranked organizations if the small organization is from an important organizational tree, or part of a third party provider.
- APTs occurs in stages like infiltration, escalation, lateral movement, exfiltration, etc.
  
  