In this specific chapter we'll find:

3.1. Describe operating system security concepts. 
3.2. Demonstrate familiarity with appropriate endpoint tools that gather security assessment information. 
3.4. Implement software and hardware updates. 
3.5. Interpret system logs.

# Host Security Features
- For a good security on hosts, we must add a well-layered defense-in-depth model to our systems, so it doesnt rely on a single point, which would add a point of failure.
- From the broadest level, we can implemend network-wide technical control and business-wide security policies. From the perspective of the hosts, secure them with any host we dispose of.
- We'll analyze the next points from the POV of Windows, Linux and Mac OS:
  - **Host-based Firewall:** Host-based firewalls are different from network-based. A host-based firewall analyzes traffic and protects the endpoint uniquely. A network-based firewall protect traffic at the boundaries, but it can't protect endpoint devices within a subnet or devices that roam in a network. A host-based firewall is able to, though.
  - **Command-line Interface:** A command-line interface (CLI) is a text-based shell that provides an administrator with numerous tools that are unavailable in graphical interfaces.
  - **File System Permissions:** File System Permissions ditactes what actions are permitted and what actions are not based on a user-by-user or group-by-group basis. With this, the principle of least privilege is important as everyone in a group only has access specifically to what they need.
  - **Full-disk Encryption:** FDE is a potent confidentiality control that wraps stored data in encrypted data. It takes plaintext and transforms it to cipertext. By doing this, any possible unauthorized individual with physical access to the storage disk also needs to have a symmetric key to decrypt the data.
  - **Update Mechanisms:** By applying update mechanisms to hosts, these hosts are supplied with security updates and patches that often helps with a devices security health, performance issues and even though it's doesn't stop there, it makes attackers job more difficult.
  - **Log Data:** Stores logs of operating system events, with a proper data log system it's possible to have a fast troubleshooting response, security ammendments and monitoring.

# Windows
- Windows is a closed-source code operating system sold and maintained by Microsoft.
- There are several editions of Windows, including host-directed versions such as Microsoft Home, Pro, Enterprise all on 10 and 11 versions; or a bit more of a professional side of things with Microsoft Server 2016 and 2019.
- There are security features that are only available on the Server side of Windows such as Active Directory.
- Also, between host-directed Windows editions, the BitLocker function is only available on Windows Pro, Education and Enterprise.
  
### Workgroups and Domains
- **Workgroup** provides a mechanism to share files and printers between endpoints. The drawback is that the workgroup feature is peer-to-peer, only devices knowing each other are able to contact. Upon Windows installation, a default workgroup is created called WORKGROUP, which within a small network can be modified with a user credential to connect to other devices.
- **Active Directory** at the other side provides client/server architecture. At their core are on-premises and cloud-based domain controllers. These servers centrally manage authorization, authentication and machine and user configurations (via Group Policies) and additionally, domain controllers use these services to obtain time syncronization and DNS. 
  - Active Directory has two main strong advantages, manageability and scalability. It offers manageability in the way that it puts configurations in a single place, the domain controller, and every connecting device obtains this certain configuration upon connection. It offers scalability in which for new additions, it's not hard for the new endpoints to get this configuration.

### Windows Defender
- Defender is a constellation of security features that helps the defending of Windows. Following, the key terms that outlights the most.

### Virus and Threat Protection
- In this section of the Windows Defender, you can see the history of previous scans performed. Also, you can schedule new ones and see the removed files under suspicious detection. It includes the following important tools:
  - The Scan Option allows you to perform new scans, more intensive ones or offline scans.
  - The Manage Settings allows you to toggle features like real-time protection and automatic sample submission.
  - The Check for Updates allows you to manually update malware signatures.

### Firewall and Network Protection
- In this tab, you can find configuration about the firewall and in which type of group and network you're currently operating at.
- Useful links in this section:
  - Allow an App Through Firewall allows you to choose whether an app should communicate in a public, private or domain network.
  - Advanced Settings allows you to choose more granular options over the network.

### App and Browser Control
- This section contains security options about Edge sandboxing, mitigation of malware and SmartScreen. In this tab, this group limits the reachability of applications inside an environment.
- SmartScreen uses reputational data about URLs and with this, define the trustyworthness and availability of URLs. SmartScreen can block low reputation files and applications, URLs (when using Edge) and other security features.

### CMD and Powershell
- Windows contains two command-line interfaces (CLIs), one is CMD and the other is Powershell.
- CMD is the older between the two. It's merely based on the MS-DOS days. A newer and optimized one is the Powershell.
- The powershell is the updated version of the CMD, it contains all the previous commands of the CMD with a better intuitive syntax.
- Both command line interfaces can be run with elevated privileges. Sometimes, there will be times where it's needed more privileges than usual to execute certain commands and there are two ways to achieve this:
  - From the GUI, second click the CLI application and execute it as administrator.
  - From the CLI, the command *runas/user:<user> <command>* executes a command after elevating its permissions to administrator privileges.
- Using the **hostname** command displays the systems name, and the command **whoami** displays your username.
- A key difference is that depending whether you start as an administrator or a non-elevated user, the location open with the shell is different.
- **KEY POINT AHEAD - :**
  - Obtaining high privilege accounts, credentials or permissions is a daily activity for IT personnel. It's important to know that a lot of the important actions are required to have these elevated privileges. This is the reason why it's important to manage permissions, this way even after attackers have compromised our systems they'll have to do *privilege escalation* to reach high privilege accounts.

### NTFS Permissions
- NTFS stands for New Technology File System. It's the last developed Microsoft file system and it contains features that improves the permission management.
- Some features developed on NTFS:
  - Support for larger files and partitions.
  - Improved reliablity.
  - Encryption or compression of individual files and directories.
  - Granular permissions.
- This last item, NTFS permissions, establishes a very important factor from Windows. With this, file system permissions are applied to files and folders granularly. You can build list of principals (users and groups of users) and state what's allowed and not allowed to be done.
- [Read more here.](https://www.lepide.com/blog/whats-the-difference-between-share-and-ntfs-permissions/)
- It's important to note that the file system attaches its own jurisdiction to a file. For example, a NTFS formatted file is copied and pasted into Linux, Linux does not recognize NTFS so the permissions are not going to apply.
- Also, moving files within Windows or systems can affect the permissions assigned to the file. A file inherits permissions from the parent folder, and if the permissions are different from the original source then they'll be changed. This can lead to data exposure.

### BitLocker
- BitLocker is a full-disk encryption technology that encrypts all data contained in a hard drive disk or a solid state drive. BitLocker is more secure than independently encrypting data.
- BitLocker use various techniques and processes to encrypt all the data in a drive.
- BitLocker must use a device to encrypt this data, and it's normally a TPM module, a PIN or a USB drive. Also, it can use a combination of the previous.
- When using BitLocker, it's important to save your decrypting key or else the information is going to remain encrypted unless the key is provided.

### Windows Update
- Windows tool that provides your device with the latest security updates, patches, performance improvements, bug fixes, etc. It's important to remain this tool checked and have the latest updates availables and installed.
- Windows normally downloads and install updates automatically, or you can manually do it as well.
- It's important to note that in a large environment, directly updating systems without testing the update might get dangerous, this is due to updates not being compatible with certain code or software. It's important to test an update before applying it. In Active Directory, it's possible to use Windows Server Update Services (WSUS) to centrally manage updates and deply them to domain controllers.
- Clearly, Windows Update do not handle updates to third-party applications. Some of them are installed with updaters, others requires you to manually download a newer version and other ones don't ever have update installers.

### Events Viewer and Audit Logs
- The Event Viewer application from windows allows administratos to see log entries from a system. It's a hierarchy from the most used to the least used or most important to the least important logs. It can be organized based on requirements.
- Windows Table Event Categories - **KEY TOPIC** - Order is Log Category |  Description and Example
  - Application | Background service events such as *background applications* or *application events*.
  - Security | All security-relevant events, such as *Successful or unsuccessful logons. Events off the established policies*.
  - Setup | Windows installation and update events, such as *Windows updates installed or removed*.
  - System | System and component events, such as *Time sync events, computer shutdowns or turnons, other hardware/software related stuff*.
  - Forwarded Events | Events generated on other systems and transmitted here.

# Linux
- Linux is an open-source operating system, meaning it's available for everyone. Also, it's one of the most used operating systems in the server field.
- There's no specific true version of Linux, as it's open source then everyone has access to the source code and therefore allowed to modify, customize the operating system. There are distributions though.
- The main difference between distributions is the packet manager of each distro. Between the Red Hat and Debian Distributions, this is the key difference.
  - Packet Managers are the ones that manages, installs, uninstall applications and characteristics of a Linux system.
- In many cases, the Linux packet manager is either dnf, yum or apt.
  - Debian Distros uses apt (Advanced Packet Tool).
  - Red Hat Distros uses yum and/or dnf.

### firewalld and UFW
- Most Linux distributions use the nftable component to analyze and control network traffic.
- Also, Red Hat Distros tend to use firewalld and Debian Ditros tend to use UFW.
- Although these are not easy to work through, and often contains no GUI, some third party applications have been developed to solve the issue.

### Bash
- Linux is mostly managed around with the command-line interface. It has a lot of GUIs (also called desktop environments) that can be swapped around based on your likings. Yet, it's around the corner where the CLI will start being more used.
- Linux has many shells, including the Bourne Again (sh), Zsh or others. One offers more functionalities than the other.
- Bourne Again Shell is the default shell for Linux, it establishes most of the functions. Yet, it's a lot more different than Powershell, which contains a more intuitive syntax.
- Normally the prompt displays a line to type in, which shows your username, the user group and the current directory. Also, at the end there's a sign appended, it's a dollar sign ($) when you're on normal user permissions, and a pound sign (#) when browsing with sudo permissions.

### Becoming a sudo user in bash
- It's important for you to know how to become sudo, as most application installation, modifications, system modifications and other features are only available when working as a root user. There are three ways to become root user:
  - **Log in as the root user:** Logging as the main root user allows you to execute most of the CLI functionalities and workarounds. Yet, this is not recommended as by having a minor mistake and allowing an attacker in, it's twice easier for the attacker to perform actions. It's recommended to leverage permissions on the go.
  - **Log in as a normal user and switch users to root:** Knowing the root password allows you to log in the system as a regular user, then use the command *su* to switch user, in this case choosing the root user. The single open CLI windows is elevated on privileges until closed the window.
  - **Log in as a normal user and execute privileged commands with the sudo command:** It's preferred to use the sudo command before any command execution that provides with elevated privileges. With this, the only given command is going to be elevated to privileges and until that command is finished, the sudo ends there. This also allows a better event log as every "sudo" execution exports an entry to the logs. Not every member of a system is allowed to execute sudo though, only certain members from certain groups can. In Red Hat Distributions, you must be part of the wheel group. In the Debian Distribution, you must be part of the sudo group.

### Linux Permissions
- Linux permissions are way less complicated that NTFS. In Linux, you only have three possible principals to give permissions, and only three permissions available.
- The principal individuals that permissions are available for are: Users, Groups and Others. And the only available permissions are: write, read and execute.
- ``` -rwxr-xr-- 1 Student Accounting 0 Feb 9 16:27 tax_calc.sh ```
  - The "student" word shows the user and the "accounting" determines the group. Only people with the Student user and within the Accounting service is allowed to access the tax_calc.sh file.
  - The "-rwxr-r--" field are the permissions. Each three letters after the first "-" is defined a different principal. This means that "rwx" specifices that user has permissions of read, execute and write. The "r-x" means that group has permissions to read and execute. And all others only have read permissions.

### SELinux and AppArmor
- File system permissions open doors to discretionary access control (DAC) where the principal with ownership of a resource may handle the permissions at their own discretion. For this to be solved, mandatory access control (MAC) must be implemented.
- Mandatory Access Control enforces policies on to users that these can't override.
- There are two main MAC implementation for Linux: SELinux and AppArmor.

### SELinux
- SELinux assignes labels to system objects. Then actions are allowed or forbbiden based on the SELinux policy.

### AppArmor
- Unlike SELinux, it's a MAC utility that manages application's permissions based on a created (or generated) profile. For instance, creating a profile that does not allows certain application to access the network or certain directories. It's a much more simpler application than SELinux, an application that implicitely denies everything unless proven otherwise.

### dm-crypt and LUKS
- These two are full disk encryption complementary tools.
- dm-crypt is a more complete and complex tool that encrypts block storage devices. LUKS is an expansion of dm-crypt and is often more used due to it being less complex than dm-crypt, which acts on a low-level module.
- In most situations, disk encryption using LUSK must be configured after the fact, yet this must be activated during the disk partitioning.
- It's a good practice to encrypt everything.

### Updates: dnf, yum and apt
- The title mentioned terms are packet managers, the main difference between linux distributions. Although they seem hard, they're just in the systems to play and properly play with the applications updating, installing, removing, etc. Also, you can use these for almost every action in Linux such as updating the os, updating drivers or certain software.
- Although they share the syntax and most of the cases the commands are regularly the same, *apt* has a difference. With *apt* you must first update the repository of what's available, updates or anything that can be updated, and then run the command to upgrade. In dnf and yum, the update part is already done automatically.

### Linux Logs
- Linux contains a directory inside its root to save all the logs, it's stored in /var/log/ as a simple text-file that displays the preconfigured information.
- The layouts from the different log systems may differ but they all contain something similar:
  - The timestamp.
  - The user or system that invoked a command or asked a request.
  - The command or action taken.
  - The resource acted upon.
  - A description or additional information.
- It's relatively easy to learn reading the text files. There are some tools to make this job easier:
  - **cat** command displays the content of the specified files, it can be one or more. Sometimes it may get tedious to read data as it can gather just too much information.
  - **head** by default, prints the first 10 lines of a file, or with the flag *-n* and specifying a number, you can change this.
  - **tail**, inversely, it prints the last 10 lines of a file and using the *-n* flag, it specifies how many pages back you want to see. Also, use the flag *-n* to receive new lines as they're appended to the file.
  - **grep**, it's used to find and match a specifically entry pattern on a file. It's often used with the previous commands to first find or gather content, then pipe (|) the found lines with what you want to find in these lines. Like ``` tail -n 2000 logs | grep sudo  ``` and with this, you'll gather all the lines containing the word "sudo" from the gathered 2000 logs lines.

# MacOS
- MacOS is a Unix operating system developed.
- MacOS uses *pf* (packet filter) as its firewall protection system.

### Zhs
- MacOS uses Zhs as the default shell.
- It used to be Bash and they replaced it with Zhs most likely due to licensing matters.

### APFS Permissions
- Apples system permissions is pretty similar to Linux's fyle system. Read the characteristics above to get more information.
- There are some light differences though, such as the @ or + symbol to indicate more information is available.

### File Vault
- Also known as File Vault 2, it's the tool that MacOS uses for a full-disk encryption of data. Once it's enabled, your data will be encrypted in the background as you use the computer.
- It's important to remember that the recovery key must be saved in a safe place or in the iCloud, if lost then all the data encrypted so will be.

### Updates
- There are different places to check and apply updates.
- For the applications downloaded from the App Store, you can check the updates from the App Store Updates section.
- For third-party applications, these often include self-update mechanisms.
- And for the operating system, there's an option under System Settings > Software Update that helps you with the operating system related updates such as security patches, bugs, performance fixes, etc.

# Tools
### netstat and ss
- netstat is a tool used for viewing network statistics such as active connections and listeners, open ports, identify executable or executed process identifications, etc.
- **KEY TOPIC AHEAD - :** Order is TASK | WINDOWS COMMAND | LINUX COMMAND
  - List All Sockets | netstat -a | netstat -a
  - List TCP Sockets | netstat -p tcp | netstat -t
  - List UDP Sockets | netstat -p udp | netstat -u
  - List All Sockets and Associated Process | netstat -o | netstat -p
- Upon execution of the last command, you'll see various columns with the information these are providing, yet one of the most important sections can be STATUS, which shows the status of the connection such as:
  - **LISTENING:** Computer is listening for a connection.
  - **ESTABLISHED:** Computer has established a connection.
  - **CLOSE_WAIT:** The connection is awaiting to be closed.
  - **CLOSED:** The connection has been closed.
- On the other side, we have *ss* which stands for Socket Statistics. *netstat* has been deprecated as *ss* is faster and more reliable. Its commands are similar:
  - List All Sockets | ss -a
  - List TCP Sockets | ss -at
  - List UDP Sockets | ss -au
  - List Sockets and Associated Ports | ss -p

### nslookup
- A tool available in all Windows, MacOS and Linux (although some distros requires installation).
- nslookup finds the IP address related to a FQDN and then prints it, or can also be provided with an IP address and find the related FQDN.
- nslookup command examples: Order is COMMAND | DESCRIPTION
  - nslookup cisco.com | Query the default DNS server for cisco.com ip address.
  - nslookup cisco.com 208.67.222.222 | Queries a specific server for the cisco.com IP addresses.
  - nslookup -type=a cisco.com | Query for cisco.com A records.
  - nslookup -type=mx cisco.com 208.67.222.222 | Queries for cisco.com's IP addresses on the 208.67.222.222 DNS server for MX records.

### dig
- dig is a functionality like nslookup, it's mostly used in Unix systems.
- It provides more of a verbose response than nslookup and more statistics than nslookup itself.
- dig command examples: Order is COMMAND | DESCRIPTION
  - dig cisco.com | Query cisco.com default DNS for the IP address of cisco.com.
  - dig@208.67.222.222 | Query a specific DNS server for Cisco.com IP address.
  - dig cisco.com a | Query for cisco.com A records.
  - dig@208.67.222.222 cisco.com mx | Query for the mx records of the cisco.com ip address provided by the 208.67.222.222 DNS server.

### tcpdump
- tcpdump is a tool that provides with network traffic analysis.
- It's important to note that tcpdump must always be executed with root privileges and this is because the tool needs access to all the traffic that goes through a NIC.
- You want to use the -i flag following the NIC name to start capturing data flowing through.
- Also, you may want to store data in a file, so you can use the flag -w following the name of the file.
- tcpdump commands: Order is COMMAND | DESCRIPTION
  - tcpdump -i ens18 | Capture traffic on the ens18 NIC and prints it out.
  - tcpdump -i ens18 -w traffic.pcap | Captures traffic on the ens18 NIC and saves it to the traffic.pcap file.
  - tcpdump -i ens18 host 208.67.222.222 | Captures traffic on the ens18 NIC to or from the host 208.67.222.222.
  - tcpdump -i ens18 tcp port 80 | Captures TCP traffic on port 80 from the ens18 interface.
  - tcpdump -i ens18 tcp dst port 80 and dst 10.10.0.5 | Capture traffic from the interface ens18 on the destination port 80 and destination ip address of 10.10.0.5.

### Wireshark
- It's a GUI application that captures data just as tcpdump does. It has an interface in which you select the interface to capture traffic from, and then even have options to filter traffic or other customizable options.
- A couple key differences from tcpdump:
  - Capture filters - Filters applied before a scan starts. You can limit the amount of information you want to see and store it later. These reduces RAM consumption and the size of a pcap file.
  - Display filters - These filters do not affect the captured traffic. You can modify the amount of data you want to display during or after the scan has ended.

### Syslog
- It's a way of formatting and transmitting log data over systems.
- Characteristics of a syslog format:
  - Timestamps are important for syslog, they introduce the date and time a log was entried. It's normally in sync with time servers such as a NTP server.
  - Device IDs that indicates which system originated an entry.
  - Facilities to indicate the log which system a message pertains to.
  - Severity values from 0 to 7, where 0 is critical and 7 is verbose information.
  - Messages that describes the event that occurred.
- **KEY TOPIC AHEAD - SYSLOG LEVELS:**
  - Order is LEVEL | NAME | DESCRIPTION
  - 0 | Emergency | A system is not functional.
  - 1 | Alert | An event that requires immediate response.
  - 2 | Critical | An event needs a response.
  - 3 | Error | A system remains up but something is degrading its functionality.
  - 4 | Warning | A more severe event may occur.
  - 5 | Notice | Regular but important events are occurring.
  - 6 | Informational | Routine events are reoccurring.
  - 7 | Debug | Verbose details about the systems are provided.
- Syslog is normally a network protocol communicating on the UDP port 514. It has a client that generates the logs and a server that store these logs for revisions.