# Cryptography
- Process of using mathematical techniques to protect data.
  - With this, you prevent other parties from reading or tampering information.
  - https://www.nist.gov/cryptography
- Using cryptography, you can:
  - Encrypt plaintext, transport it through an untrusted or trusted network, and decrypt it at the other side.
    - By doing this, anyone in the middle of the communication won't be able to read, tamper or alter the data.
  - Encrypt important stored information.
    - In case of leakages or intrusions, data is encrypted and not able to be modified, read, tampered, altered, etc.

### Encryption and Decryption
- Encryption enforces confidentiality.
  - It takes plaintext information and ciphers it to make it unreadable for the human eye.
- Decryption supports encryption.
  - It takes ciphertext information and removes its encryption to make it readable for the human eye.
- To perform encryption and decryption we need something called a *key*
  - Unique information, values and set of rules used to encrypt and decrypt information.
  - This key contains the set of guidelines, just per se, needed for the cryptography of data.

### States of Data
- There are three states of data, data at rest, in transit and in use.
  - **Data in transit:**
    - Data being transferred using networks (private or public).
    - This data can be interfered by third parties and be read if it's in plaintext.
    - This is why you want to use encryption/decryption when communicating through networks with information.
    - Along with the encryption/encryption process, you want to use hashing of information.
      - With this, you can verify the veracity and integrity of information.
  - **Data at rest:**
    - Data being stored in databases, or USBs, hard drives, etc.
    - Data must be protected, encrypted at all times when it's under rest.
    - With encrypted data, you can prevent cyber attackers from reading it, because it's not plaintext.
    - Plus, if leakages are produced they can't see or read the information within the data because they do not have the decryption key.
  - **Data in use:**
    - Data being used by the CPU or stored in RAM.
    - Before data being able to be processed by RAM, it must be decrypted.
    - Then they must encrypt it after using the data.
    - Some systems can use encrypted data without decrypting it.
    - NOTE: During its process, data is in plaintext and can be read.

# Symmetric Cryptography
- Symmetric cryptography uses a single key for encryption and decryption.
  - Say u got a homie you're trying to send information to.
  - You encrypt the data using this lil key, and send the key separetely to ya homie.
  - He finna decrypt the message, so da key he might wanna use.

# Asymmetric Cryptography
- Asymmetric cryptography uses two different keys that have a relation between them.
  - We call these relationship private/public key.
  - Public key is the one anyone can see, the private key is well, private.
  - These two have a mathematical relation between.
- IF YOU ENCRYPT WITH A *PUBLIC KEY*, only the PRIVATE KEY can decrypt it.
- IF YOU ENCRYPT/DIGITALLY SIGN WITH A *PRIVATE KEY*, only the PUBLIC KEY can decrypt it.

### Confidentiality with Asymmetric Cryptography
- By having this sort of relationed keys, you avoid intercepted messages from being read or tampered.
  - Only the person who has the private key, will be able to decrypt a message encrypted with its pair public key.
  - Only the person who has the public key, will be able to encrypt a message with the pair private key and decrypt.
  - This is called ***bidirectional*** communication.
- Using asymmetric keys, you can communicate the public key however you wish.
- Always make sure the private key is only known by you, no one else.
- This ensure confidentiality, because only the right persons can access the data.

### Authentication with Asymmetric Cryptography
- With the previous example:
  - You were reaching confidentiality because others could not see what's being communicated.
- Now here, to reach authentication:
  - If you *encrypt with a private key*, ONLY the public key can decrypt it.
  - Authentication is the process of knowing the right user has the communicated content and isn't in other hands.
  - So if Cesar encrypts with the private key and sends it to Ye, Ye will use the public key (which is the only key that can decrypt the mssage) and with this you reach authentication.
- Public key encryption ensures only the intended recipient (with the private key) can access the message (confidentiality).
- Private key signing ensures the message came from the claimed sender (with the corresponding public key) (authentication).

### Combining Confidentiality and Authentication with Asymmetric Cryptography
- You can achieve both by:
  - For authentication:
    - Use your own private key to digitally sign the data, so the other party with your public key can verify this information is actually from yourself.
  - For confidentiality:
    - After you have digitally signed this data, then you can encrypt data using the other's party public key, and they and only they could decrypt this data using their private key.

# Using Symmetric and Asymmetric Cryptography
- Asymmetric cryptography uses more resources.
- For more secure/safe communications, it would be better to use asymmetric cryptography.
- Now, resource consuming is also an important fact.
- You could:
  - Use symmetric for storaged database, data in rest or data in transit through VPN.
  - Use asymmetric for light information, such as communicating symmetric keys.
- Basically you can use asymmetric cryptography between parties to safely communicate symmetric keys, which then can be used on the predefines purpose.

# Types of Ciphers
- In real world symmetric cryptography is used to encrypt large amounts of data.
  - While asymmetric cryptography is used to share these symmetric keys safely.

### Symmetric Ciphers
- Order is SYMMETRIC ALGORITHM | DESCRIPTION
- DES - Data Encryption Standard (DES) it was developed in the 70s by IBM and encrypts data in block of 64 bits.
- 3DES - Triple Data Encryption Standard (TDES) continuation model of DES, encrypts data using three keys instead of one but its performance is slower.
- AES - Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) data can be encrypted in 128, 192 and 256 bits blocks. It's the most widely used symmetric model. And it replaces DES and 3DES.
- IDEA - Not often used today, built as replacement for DES but didnt work out and AES ran better.
- RC2, RC4, RC5, RC6 - None of these are highly utilized today. Created by Rivest, AES is more secure still.

### Asymmetric Ciphers
- Order is ASYMMETRIC ALGORITHM | DESCRIPTION
- Rivest, Shamir, and Adleman (RSA) - Primarily used for authentication. Key lenght varies from 512 to 4096 and the minimum for a good security is 1024. Now, 2048 is recommended. The bigger length the better.
- Digital Signature Algorithm (DSA) - Primarily used for digital signature authentications and avoid tampering. It's recommended to use key lenghts of 2048 or more.
- Diffie-Hellman (DH) - Primarly used as a key exchange protocol. It allows to entities to build a shared secret key using untrusted networks. It generates symmetric keys. The keys are generated using asymmetric algorithms but the final key is actually a symmetric key. This key can be used for symmetric ciphers such as AES, DES,3DES, IDEA, etc.
- Elliptic-Curve cryptography (ECC) - Based on the algorithm of algebraic structures of elliptic curves over finite fields. Preferred after RSA, it's used for digitally signatures of crypto transactions, or one-way encryptions of email, data or software.
- https://sec.cloudapps.cisco.com/security/center/resources/next_generation_cryptography#2

# Certificates and PKI
- Asymmetric cryptography is based in a couple of keys called private and public keys.
  - However, these keys can be given from impersonated identities and we would like to verify authenticity of each transaction.
  - This is a big problem, some attacker could be impersonating one of the parties and try to establish disguised communication.
  - This is when Certificates and PKI comes into play.
- Public Key Infrastructure:
  - Set of identities, roles, policies and actions for digital certificates management, distribution or revocation.
- A digital certificate:
  - Used to link the ownership of public keys with the entity that owns it.
- Basically it will secure you that the public key you're using is actually from the entity it says it is.
- Example:
  - A bouncer from a night club might check your driving license as a requirement to verify your age, date of birth, have a picture of you to verify that's it's actually yours. Why does the bouncer trusts that driving license? Because of the entity that provided it.
- Real life example:
  - Alice and Bob can have their public key signed by a certificate authority, which is a trusted entity.
  - Now if Alice sends Bob her public key, she can contact his CA to check the authenticity of the public key.
  - You have to trust each others CA to properly

### Certificate Authority (CA)
- Certificate Authorities creates and issues digital certificates.
  - You can have your own centralized CA in your network.
  - Or you can use other's valid CAs to issue and verify certificates, such as:
    - GoDaddy
    - AWS
    - Thawte
    - Global Sign
    - Symantec
    - Etc.
- You can find preloaded CAs in Windows.
  - These have been already trusted by the system and you can freely and safely use them.
- Alice pays a CA to verify her public key:
  - The digital certificate contains information such as the FQDN, IP address, the public key Alice submitted, and other stuff.
  - Then, the CA finally signs the public key with their private key.
  - Alice has the public key from the CA in her trusted CA list.
  - Alice can use the public key to decrypt the signature sent from the CA.

### SCEP
- The process of evaluating certificates, verifying the CA server, creating public or private keys, assigning the certificates and all of that takes several steps to be accomplished.
- Luckly, you have the Simple Certificate Enrollment Protocol
  - Developed by Cisco and third party vendors.
  - This aids with all the previous mentioned process.
  - It's mostly only open to Cisco devices, yet it's convenient to use when possible.

### Digital Certificates
- There are types of digital certificates that can be used depending on its purpose.
- Order is DIGITAL CERTIFICATE | USE CASE
  - Root (CA certificate) - Used to identify CAs.
  - SSL/TLS - Used to validate website domains and secure data in transit.
  - Code Signing - Used to verify the authenticity of a developed cody.
  - User/Client - Used to athenticate users and devices that access private resources without username and passwords.
  - Object Signing - Used to digitally sign any digital item and verify, authenticate the ownership integrity.
- Certificates are based on the X.509 public key certificates standard. Digital certificate contains information such as:
- Order is CERTIFICATE INFORMATION | DESCRIPTION
  - Subject - Person or entity being identified.
  - Signature Algorithm - Specific algorithm used to digitally sign the certificate.
  - Signature - Signature in place by the certificate authority, used to verify the certificate integrity issued by the CA.
  - Issuer - Entity or CA that created the digital certificate.
  - Valid from - Starting valid date.
  - Valid to - Ending valid date.
  - Key usage - Function that the certificate is meant to be.
  - Public key - Public portion of the public and private key that the host has created and whose certificate is being looked at.
  - Thumbprint algorithm - Hash algorithm used for data integrity.
  - Thumbprint - Actual hash.
  - Certificate revocation list location - URL that can be checked to verify if the certificiate has been revoked by the pertinent CA.

### Lifetime of a Digital Certificate
- We only use public keys as long as they're within the valid terms.
- Imagine that Alice's private key has been compromised.
  - With this, the cybercriminal can decrypt any information given to them.
  - What should be done here is that Alice should inform the CA that the digital certificate has been compromised.
  - With this, the CA can revoke the previous digital certification.
- As you can imagine now, using a revoked certification can bring problems.
- Unless it's the certification issued by the CA is valid, do not access sites with digital certificates invalid.
- To check the digital certificate, you can also:
  - Check the certificate revocation list (CRL) or an Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) database.
    - CRL - List of all the certificates issued by a specific CA. This list includes any certificate revoked by the CA.
    - OCSP - Defined in the RFC 6960, used to check the current states of digital certificates.

### PKI Infrastructure
- Hierarchy of CA servers.
- At the top, there will always be the root CA.
- This can either by a private set CA or a public trusted CA.
- Under the root CA, you have the intermediate CAs and subordinates levels of CA.
- This is an important aspect:
  - A hierarchy contains a supply chain.
  - For intermediate CAs to verify certificates, it must use the Public Key of the Root CA to verify the information.
  - So it happens for the subordinate CAs, it must use the public key of the intermediate CA to verify the information of the certificate.

# Hashing
- Hashing can be used for:
  - Authentication process.
  - Data integrity.
  - Hash data to conceal it in stored databases/bases.  
- Hashing is a one-way function.
  - Once you hash data, it can't be "unhashed"
  - Unlike encrypting, which is a two-way function as you can decrypt it with a key.
- Hashing algorithms: Order is HASHING ALGORITHM | DESCRIPTION
  - MD5 - Takes any amount of data and outputs a fixed 128-bit hash value that can be used to verify integrity. It doesn't provides security, so only use it with noncryptographic data purposes.
  - SHA 1 - Takes any amount of data and outputs a fixed 180-bit hash value that can be used to verify integrity. Also only use it for noncryptographic data purposes.
  - SHA 256 - Takes any mount of data and outputs a 256-bit hash value that can be used as cryptographic function to conceal data and preserve or check integrity. Minimum recommended hashing algorithm.
  - SHA 384 - Takes any mount of data and creates a 384-bits hash value that can be used as a cryptographic function to conceal data and preserve or check integrity.
  - SHA 512 - Takes any amount of data and creates 512-bits hash values that do the same as the last one bro.
- Data being hashed.
  - With this, we still have the plaintext but we also have a hash to verify integrity of data.
- Optionally, if using the hashing algorithms that provides with cryptographic functions
  - Data is stored in hashes.
  - If data is hashed, then you can't see the plaintext but instead when trying to log in, the compared data to authenticate the password will be the stored hashed value.
  - You insert plaintext to log in, the password is hashed, compared to the hashed value in the database and if it matches, you're granted access.

### Shared Secret Keys and Salting with Hashing
- Shared Secret Keys are a password, passpharse or characters that all involved parties know.
  - When hashing you take the shared secret key, with the actual data and the hashing algorithm to procude the hash.
  - With this, only people that know the shared secret key can actually verify the hash.
  - This is known as a Hashed Message Authentication Code (HMAC)
- Salting is the process of adding additional string of characters to hashed values.
  - With this, two similar hashed values can't be the same, as the salting value is different.

# Cryptography in the Real World

### Web Browsing
- When you want to communicate with a server, you can ensure the traffic with SSL/TSL protocols.
- How would this work?
  - Client introduces to the server, telling the server useful information to be known such as the SSL version, what it supports for cryptography, etc.
  - Server responds with similar information, telling the client what it supports.
  - Once this is arranged, then the server provides the PC with the digital certificate.
  - Then it comes the Diffie-Hellman (DH), asymmetric algorithm used to generate symmetric keys that will be used to secure data between the client and the server.
  - Once the client and server has ended the DH process, then data can be encrypted and decrypted using the AES algorithm.

### VPNs
- The main reason IPSec VPNs are used is to securely establish remote connections between PCs and corporate networks.
  - Generally speaking, IPSec VPNs provides safety and encryption when transferring data.
- How would this work?
  - IPSev uses DH on both ends to create the symmetric key.
  - Once it's been created, the symmetric key is given to both ends.
  - Then communication can start, where all information is encrypted and decrypted using this symmetric key.
  - You can also add SHA algorithms to hash.

### Remote Management
- Secure communication between remote management devices.
- How would this work?
  - Communication is established between the client and the SSH server to open a port.
  - With this, the DH asymmetric algorithm starts.
  - Also, after the first step, digital certificates or public keys are verified.
  - Once the DH asymmetric process is finished, symmetric keys are shared.
  - After this, AES is used as the algo used to share encrypted information between devices.

# Cisco Next-Generation Cryptography
- Solution used to keep up with the latest security and cryptography standards.
- It will choose the best cryptography configurations to enable more secured environments, systems, communications, etc.
- It's like a set of rules that can be good for an organization.