# Asset Management
An endpoint is basically everything that connects to a network including laptops, computers, IOTs, workstations, mobiles, etc.

**KEY POINT:** Asset Management is the process of deploying, maintaining and decommissioning IT resources and assets, yet an asset is anything that poses a value to a company or organization. Important key factors about asset management that may help secure assets:
- Improved visibility - Have a better image about what is in and what is not inside a network.
- System maintenance - It's important to have all the resources patched with the latest security updates.
- Asset priorization - A complete evaluation and image of assets is the first step in evaluating the best asset controls and priorization.
- Better auditing and detection - A centralized database of assets on a baseline improves the network security quality by knowing which devices are authorized and approved to be where they are.
- Legal Exposure - Asset inventories help you with providing reqeuired regulations and avoiding lawsuits and fines.

You could keep track of assets in a spreadsheet the old way, but there are better methods such as using software designed to keep track and link endpoints together, potentially reducing costs. Also, it's important to keep a list of every endpoint or asset in a network for the following reasons:
- Vulnerability Management - Vulnerability scanners can't see all the network devices and endpoints of a network, neither their system version or firmware. Having a list on all of these characteristics easies your way into knowing the devices, systems and possible vulnerabilities each one has.
- Incident Response - Detecting, containing and eradicating incidents without having a proper or clean vision over the assets being protected might cause oversights during the IR process.
- Risk Assessment - You can't measure risk for hardware or software you are not aware of. Asset inventories help with this process to to help with measurement and priorization of risks.

# Program Deployment
Programs and software deployments can be performed either manually or automatically. As we know, every system has their own update installer such as Windows Update for Windows, the packet manager for Linux or the corresponding update software for MacOS. It can be hard to manually apply updates for each host at a time, so usually it is a better choice to go with automated deployments.

Automated deployments can be made through platform-specific and cross-platform tools:
- **Platform-specific tools:** Tools used to support certain/specific platform software from a single operating system, just like Windows offices might require their own tools to provide support to domain-joined Microsoft computers.
- **Platform-agnostic tools:** Tools used to support various software from a mixed environment of operating systems. Some tools are:
  - Mobile Device Management (MDM) - Enables the administration of mobile devices and also is capable of administrating desktop workstations or systems.
  - Remote Monitoring and Management (RMM) - Allows IT service provides to connect, monitor and manage endpoints.

# Backups
A backup is a copy of storaged data in different places or locations to avoid losing a single set of data permanently. It can be made either locally or remotely

### Local and Remote Backups
**KEY POINT AHEAD** We can have backups either local or remotely storaged in safe places:
- Local Backups - These backups are in the same location that you currently are. Having a backup of your local computer to a hard drive is a local backup.
- Remote Backups - Key difference is that these backups are made remotely to other geographical locations, or in the cloud, basically far from your current location.

There are situations that vary from why or how you want to create your backups. Let's talk about the location first, with local backups you have a backup locally and instantly in your current location, where the remote backup is completely at other location.

Now *speed*, it's faster to create a backup when you're locally cloning the information that doing it over the internet as it should be done when using remote backup methods.

Also an important fact is the *disaster resistance* in which if local backup location experiences any type of disaster such as fire or water damage there's almost nothing you can do, it's easier for the local backup to be destroyed. At the other side, remote backups has a different location so in case of a disaster happening to the source location of the backup'd data, the remote location should be safe.

And last but not least, the *internet* factor is also there. Local backups don't require generally internet access where remote backups must use internet to connect to the remote backup location.

### Full, Differential and Incremental Backups
With full backups we're not deduplicating the data, meaning that data is saved from endpoints no matter what without checking for redundancy of data. Now with hundreds of data being duplicated it's easy to fill a 100GB of hard drive in days.

Because of this, we have differential and incremental backups. These works based on doing a full backup and then parcially doing backups of information depending on what's needed. A differential backup copies new data after the first full backup. Then, the incremental backup copies any new data after the first full backup or incremental backup.

# Bring Your Own Device (BYOD)
**KEY POINT AHEAD** BYOD is a policy that allows inviduals of an organization to use their own equipment and devices for the job. This brings benefits to the employers and employees of an organization, employees use their own equipement and devices they're used to, feeling more comfortable, faster and better to work with. This also brings pros to the organization such as reducing devices and resources, etc.

Components of the BYOD policy:
- **Well-defined security policies** - Security policies and standards should be enforced over BYOD devices, some requirements:
  - Acceptable device access controls such as PINs, biometric recognition, etc.
  - Storage encryption requirements.
  - Network encryption requirements.
  - Separation of personal and organizational data.
  - Permited and forbidden applications usage.
  - Security patches.
  - Geolocation and remote security wipes.
- **Mobile Device Management Tools (MDM)** - MDM is software that streamlines the management of mobile devices. BYOD does not need of MDM, but MDM helps improve the management of BYODs. Some of the capabilities provided by MDM:
  - Enforcing security policies and standards.
  - Automated deployment of company applications.
  - Apps installing restrictions.
  - Data containerization - Dividing personal and organizational data of a BYOD for remote wipes in case of termination or device loss.
  - Device geolocation.
- **Ongoing Employee Training** - Employees should be educated on the evolutioning techniques and security measures such as:
  - Security policy awareness training.
  - Malware and phishing detection.
  - Password selection training.
  - Using VPNs and avoiding public Wi-Fi networks.
  - Handling lost or stolen devices.

### Pros and Cons of BYOD
As previously mentioned, BYOD has many pros such as allowing the employee to use devices they're familiarized with, reducing latency between device swapping, reducing employers cost with having comfortable employees using higher tech or more expensive devices for work, etc.

It also has downside, though. Poor security policies and lack of MDM management. People using weak passwords, PINs, entering unknown sites or downloading and installing unknown apps, connecting to enterprise without VPNs or through public Wi-Fi networks. Even all employees of an organization using different vendor providers, operating systems, application software, etc.

Table order is BENEFITS | DRAWBACK
- Employee familiarity with device | Wider variety to support
- Improved flexibility and mobility | Compatibility issues
- Cost saving for employer | Generally less control over devices
- Potentially newer technologies | Legal and privacy concerns

### Device and Configuration Management
Cross-platform MDM really helps an administrator with BYODs. There's an MDM agent on every device that receives and applies configurations and an on premises (cloud) server that stores and manages all the configurations. In order for the MDM to properly function, it should have an MDM agent and an MDM server to connect and receive the configurations from.

MDM is the most common management technology, yet there are others such as:
- Mobile Application Management (MAM) - focuses on configuring and deploying enterprise application on mobile devices.
- Mobile Content Management (MCM) - provides secure access to enterprise data - this data can be distributed, managed and remotely wiped.
- Mobile Email Management (MEM) - Manages the setup and security emails of clients.
- Enterprise Mobility Management (EMM) - includes the previous mentioned features.

### Data Encryption
**KEY POINT AHEAD** Data encryption is available at two forms: in rest and in motion. Most of devices have full-disk encryption for storaged data (data in rest) and it may or may not be enabled by default. Most MDMs and utilities can be used to enforce data encryption. It's also important to backup all data even after it's encrypted, this way in case of the loss of a key, not all data is lost.

It's also important to encrypt data in motion, data traversing a network or going from one side of a network to the other. Various protocols are being used daily for data encryption, like traffic over TSL/SSL. Yet, there are various other protocols which data is not encrypted.

Two main VPN technologies are available: IPsec which is supported for a widen variety of devices but often experiences problems with NAT, for example. Also, the other is a VPN client that requires of software, like OpenVPN, but face fewer issues.

A key factor about VPNs is that employees must be educated with them on how or when to use these.

### App Distribution
In BYOD, app distribution can be achieved using two methods, pull model and push model. In the push model, without previous user interaction a list of applications and configurations are installed, like I said without user interaction. In the pull model, users connect to a portal that has all configurations and applications in which case depending on what they need, applications are downloaded from this portal.

It's also possible that you want to deny application on a device. It's possible to make a list with accept only the applications ruled and forbid the rest. Or deny only the applications ruled and permit the rest of application installations.

# Regulatory Compliance
For regulatory compliance, security and standards are to be applied on endpoints. Some regulatory agencies are the PCI-DSS, HIPAA and GDPR, where each one slightly differs from the other.

### PCI-DSS - Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards
The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards is an industry standard that secures the cardholders data with a set of guidelines and premises. Those are 12 premises and some relevants are:
- Protect stored cardholder data:
  - Minimize data retention and reduce data storage.
  - Encrypt cardholder data.
  - Protect all encryption keys.
- Protect all system from malicious software:
  - Use antimalware.
  - Keep the antimalware agent updated.
  - Ensure that the antimalware agent can't be disabled.
- Identify and authenticate users:
  - Ensure that all individuals have a unique username.
  - Provide authorization to these users.
  - Ensure usage of multi-factor authentication for administrative-level access.
- Log and monitor access to cardholder systems and data:
  - Log and audit all access to cardholder data.
  - Synchronize time on all data logs.
  - Ensure that logs can't be altered.

### HIPAA - The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act is an US organization that protects data from the health field. It protects sensitive information and protected health information. The technical security clauses can be summarized as:
- Access control requirements - Access to containing PHI should be controlled:
  - Unique usernames.
  - A mechanism for urgency access to PHI.
  - Automatic logoff after periods of inactivity.
  - Encryption of PHI.
- Audit Controls - Access to PHI should be accounted, logged and monitored.
- Integrity - The integrity of PHI should be protected.
- Authentication - Systems should require user authentication.
- Transmission Security - It's important to ensure the integrity and confidentiality of PHI being transferred over networks.

### GDPR - The General Data Protection Regulation
Regulation organization from Europe that protects data from their european citizens. It does not requires a specific ruling or requirements but dictates principles to follow:
- Data should only be collected and stored if needed.
- Data should be kept no longer than necessary.
- Data should be protected with appropriate access controls.
