# Introduction to AAA
- Authentication, Authorization and Account, it's a framework.
  - Framework is a structure intended to be expanded into something useful.
  - With this framework, you can control access to computing services, enforce policies and audit usage.
- Authentication
  - Who can access your systems and data.
- Authorization
  - What can be done to systems an data.
  - Permissions, group, authorization principles, etc.
- Accounting
  - Keeps track of what is done to systems and data.
- Without AAA, it's impossible to keep CIA safe.
  - Authentications help you protect confidentiality, it'll only allow certain users to systems and data.
  - Based on the last, you can preserve integrity and availability only allowing authenticated individuals and accounting stages.

# Authentication
- Something or someone is really who they say they are.
  - Process of verifying identities.
- **Authentication Factors: Order is FACTOR | DESCRIPTION | EXAMPLES**
  - Something you know | Authentication based on knowledge | Username, passwords, passphrases, PINS, etc.
  - Something you have | Based on possession | Security tokens, key fobs, access cards. PINs generated from your phone.
  - Something you are | Based on unique facts and biometrics aspects of yourself | Fingerprint, facial biometrics, iris biometrics, etc.
  - Somewhere you are | Authentication based on locations | Denied or allowed based on where you're trying to establish a connection from (Public Wi-Fi, Private Wi-Fi) or geographical locations (if Portugal then IN, if otherwhere then OUT.)
  - Something you do |  Based on habits and characteristics | The way you act, walk, speak, etc.
  - Time | Based on time of the day, day of the week, week of the month | Allowed in a network from certain working hours, or using VPN through others.

## Multifactor Authentication (MFA)
- Single Authentication Methods are not recommended anymore.
  - Attackers can access your systems if they know something that you know.
  - PINs, Username and Passwords.
- Multifactor Authentication is becoming the standard.
  - You're mixing two or more different authentication methods.
  - Something that you know (username and passwords) with something that you have (key fob, authentication PINs, etc.)
- Using MFA, you can prevent attackers from entering systems and data.
  - They know what you know to log in.
  - Yet, they need more information like where you are, or what you have, or what you are.
- Examples of MFA: Order is FACTOR 1 | FACTOR 2 | DESCRIPTION
  - Your bank card | Memorized PIN | Bank card is something that you have, one factor. The second factor is the PIN, which is something that you know.
  - Swipe card | Retinal scan | Swipe card is something that you have, one factor. The second factor is the retinal scan, which is something that you are.
  - Username and a password | Notification send to your phone that asks you to click yes or no | Username and a password are something that you know. The second factor is something that you have, which is the confirmation notification.
  - Other options.

## Passwords and Password Policies
- Passwords are the most used authentication methods. They're part of something that you know for authentication.
  - And they are not close to be replaced by other things.
- You need to make passwords hard to guess, use combined characters, they must follow certain standards.
- Also, when storing passwords they must be stored hashed in databases.
  - This way, if a breach happens then passwords won't be in plain text.
- **What should a password have?**
  - Something not easily guessable.
  - Something that can't be brute forced.
  - Something that a user can remember without writing it down.
  - Something that can be used for a long period of time.
- Password should have mixed characters, lower and upper cases. Something like 5gj2da!EW.
- Password should be long in length. The longer, the harder it's to force a brute-force attack.
- **Minimum password requirements:**
  - Encourage lengths (12 minimum characters, no maximum established.)
  - Encourage the use of passphrases (something long, friendly and easiy to remember, but long.)
  - Encourage the policy of using an uppercase letter, a number and a special character.
- When storing passwords, hashing and salting must be applied to the database.
  - Passwords must be saved in hashes.
  - Add salting to the hashes.
  - With this, if any database leak happens, passwords are hard to guess.
  - Also, if coincidence hits and you have two equal hashes, it's *salting* which will help you differentiate them. 
- Yet with all this information about passwords, don't forget *YOU MUST INCLUDE MFA* always that you can.

# Authorization
- Authenticated users obtain certain allowed permissions based on various principles:
  - **Least-Privilege Principle:** Giving authenticated users the minimum permissions they need to accomplish their job.
  - **Need-to-know Principle:** Giving authenticated users only what they need to accomplish their job.
  - **Implicit-deny Principle:** Deny everything unless implicitly allowed to.
- Always use these to assign and block permissions from users.
  - You don't insider serving as threats.
  - Also, you even more would hate to have an attacker inside your systems moving vertically or laterally.

# Accounting
- Keeps track of who, what, where, when, why and how.
  - Monitor *who* accesses *what* data, then *where* is this data accessed from and *when* is it accesed. Also, stores the *why* was it accessed and *how* was access gained.
- One of the most important fields of the triple A.
  - With this, you can monitor for security purposes, apply policies, find guilty people in case of attacks, etc.
- Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) solution and Security Orchestration, Automation, and Response (SOAR)
  - Monitoring generates a lot of logs, so these tools will help you keep them in track.
  - SIEM helps you evaluate logs and get notified about abnormalities or threats. These are established for preset of policies.
  - SOAR helps you remove the human interaction and automate certain reactions depending on the SIEM alerts.

# RADIUS
- Remote Authentication Dial-In User Service
  - Client/server that allows users to remotely access services via dial-up connections.
- RADIUS has evolved along the way.
  - It's been adapted to use the AAA framework.
- RADIUS contains a database of usernames and passwords.
  - Admins can attempt to access SSH or special services to routers.
  - If routers is configured to use RADIUS, then:
    - Router receives credentials from the administrator.
    - Router sends the credentials to the RADIUS server.
    - RADIUS server verifies that the submitted credentials are authentic.
    - If the credentials are successfully authenticated, then:
      - RADIUS sends a signal to the router to grant access.
    - If not, then:
      - RADIUS send a signal to the router to deny access.
- RADIUS also performs authentication and authorization at the same time.
  - Upon authentication, RADIUS can also tell the router
    - Grant X permissions.
    - Such as, these users only have access to perform troubleshooting actions to routing protocols.
    - Such as, these users can only access monitoring devices.
  - All of this is done by the RADIUS server.
    - It contains groups and permissions that can be assigned to certain individuals.
- RADIUS can also be configured to serve part of the accounting principle:
  - Generate logs.
  - When was there an attempt to log.
  - Who was it?
  - If granted, what was accessed by the granted user?
  - Any modifications were made? etc.
- RADIUS Ports
  - Traditionally, UDP 1645 and 1646 were used for authentication and authorization, and the last port for accounting.
  - However, we mostly see UDP 1812 and 1812 ports being used by RADIUS servers.
  - If any devices is configured to use ports 1645 and 1646, you might want to change these settings to the actual RADIUS server ports.