# Network Security Architecture
- Network Architecture provides a comprehensive framework.
  - This framework includes the future builds of proper security mechanisms.
  - These mecechanisms could prevent attacks, lower risks, security monitoring, etc.
- It involves introducting security mechanisms such as:
  - IDS/IPSs.
  - Firewalls.
  - ACLs.
  - Policies.
  - CIA Enforcing.
  - Etc.

### The Cisco SAFE Security Reference Architecture
- Security framework designed to help you build a secure infrastructure for your network.
- Encompasses security domains such as:
  - Management.
  - Security Intelligence.
  - Compliance.
  - Segmentation.
  - Threat Defense.
  - Secure Services.
- Imagina a keys:
  - To the leftside of the key you have a combo of places that you might want to protect:
    - Cloud.
    - Data Centers.
    - Campus.
    - Branch.
  - These are called PINs.
  - To the rightside of the key you have the layers that refers to the security measures that must be used to protect the PINS:
    - Management.
    - Security Inteligence.
    - Compliance.
    - Segmentation.
    - Threat Defense.
    - Secure Services.
- https://www.cisco.com/c/en/us/solutions/enterprise/design-zone-security/landing_safe.html#~overview

# Screened Subnets, Virtualization, and the Cloud
### Screened Subnet (DMZ)
- Network segmentation - Buffer Zone
  - It's a segment of a network that separates public incoming data from private networks.
  - It separates the private network from the public network.
- Inside this network segmentation, there are resources that must be publicly accessed.
  - These can be email servers, website servers, etc.
  - Anything that must be accessed from the untrusted network at some point.
- With this DMZ, you can avoid attackers from directly having access to possible lateral movements in systems if they get themselves in.
- DMZs can be in the middle of the communication between the outside and the inside.
  - Or can also be in a separate way.
- DMZs can act as a security line.
  - Having the publicly accessible services apart from the private network, allows network administrator to enforce stricter policies and rules to the private networks.
- Network security devices are often placed between zones.
  - Firewalls can be placed between zones, for example, and enforce policies to traffic trying to go into the private network.
  - By doing this, in case that attackers are inside the DMZ, it's harder for them to send or laterally move inside the private network.

### Virtualization
- It's basically creating one or various systems inside a physical hardware.
  - You can virtualize images of OSs into your own machine.
  - These are called Virtual Machines.
- They append a huge value to corporate networks for example, as with these you can have various environments in a single hardware.
- Benefits that virtualization can offer:
  - **Segmentation and Isolation:** We can create logical segments of networks and isolate them from other different networks. You can create a network segment with devices inside that are dedicated to crack malware, analyze malware or anything related with this. Then, you can isolate it using network security devices, so in case of malware leakages the traffic that attempts to go out of the segment will be blocked.
  - **Network Virtualization:** Creating logical network segments above the initial network infrastructure, just like you would create a Virtual Machine on top of physical hardware.
  - **Virtual Firewalls and Security Appliances:** Ability to have virtual security appliances applied in networks, such as Firewalls or Intrusion Detection Systems for example. With this you can reach central management, scalability and provisioning.
  - **Sandbox and Testing:** Test and analyze malware in sandboxes, a sandbox is a specialized environment that you can use to freely use malware for investigating purposes with control over the malware. You can create sandboxes in isolated network segments, as explained before, and control what may go out of the isolated environment.
  - **Disaster Recovery and High Availability:** These two can be highly maintained as virtualization offers easily replicable and management of virtual appliances through several physical servers, often without downtime and ensuring continuity in emergency cases.
  - **Network Function Virtualuzation:** Basically going from physical network hardware to virtualized appliances, such as going from physical firewalls to software-based firewalls. With this you reach scalability, agility, and often better management of devices.

### Cloud
- Once cloud was introduced, it has also brought new security considerations with its cloud-based software:
  - **Shared Responsibility Model:** Most of Cloud Models offer a shared reponsiblity model. The shared responsability is provided by the service being provided by the cloud, yet in most cases the Cloud Service Provider (CSP) is responsable for anything lying under their infrastructure, and the customer has the responsibility of the access to the cloud from their side.
  - **Data Protection:** CSPs have servers where they storage and manage customers data. It's important for a CSP to provide data encryption, access controls, general cryptography over data. It's important also that customers knows what's being made from the CSP side to protect their data.
  - **Network Isolation and Segmentation:** CSPs must provide segmentation and isolation between their customers services. Often, they separe each customers' data in various blocks so in case of attacks, the risk of massive data leakage is lower. Virtual Private Clouds (VPCs) and Virtual Networks (VNs) are methods for this.
  - **Identity and Access Management:** IAM is crucial, it's about securing the right access from authorized people to data and systems. Providing good authentication methods, a good AAA model, including MFA and other techniques can ensure confidentiality of systems. Also, you can use access control principles to regulate what can authenticated uers do.
  - **Security Monitoring and Logging:** CSPs often offers monitoring and logging services, using this as a customer, helps you with the security events that may occur and act based on them.
  - **Compliance and Auditing:** Compliances requirements changes from region to region, just make sure that your CSP is providing compliance with the regional rules. Also, some CSPs offer auditing to customers to they can review updates, security updates, logs, etc.
  - **Incident Response and Business Continuity:** Every cloud service must have incident response and business continuity plans. To reach this, the CSP must be able to detect, response and recover from any possible emergency. This ensures the less possible downtime.
  - **Cloud Security Best Practices:** CSPs must include the best security practices such as maintaining systems up to date, applying security patches, hardened systems, performing security assessments, etc.

# Proxy Servers
- A proxy is an intermediary between the final connection and the starting connection point.
  - Computers use an IP address to connect to the internet.
  - In the case of a proxy server, you're using an external server that provides this IP, so when you are connecting to a website, you're connecting from the location of the proxy server and not from your local connection.
  - Also, this ensures that networks remain private.
- Proxy servers related to network security concepts:
  - **Anonimyty and Privacy:** Proxy servers can be configured to mask the original IP source and use its own. This way, the final endpoint that this connection is reaching will receive the proxy's IP source instead of the one provided by the initial host.
  - **Content Filtering and Access Control:** Proxy sevrers can be configured to filter the content going through them and enforce access control policies. With this, organizations can limit possible malicious intended or unintended access to networks or hosts.
  - **Caching:** Proxy servers can also cache information, like webpage requests and save them in let's say a small box. This way, when future requests are directed towards the cached information, it'll be faster and you can save bandwidth. Also, with caching it's harder for attackers to make DDoS attacks reach the origin source.
  - **Load Balancing:** Proxy servers provides load balancers, this means that incomming traffic from the network can be scattered through various servers to avoid server crashes or malfunctioning. Also, this can prevent DDoS attacks.
  - **Application Layer Security:** Proxy servers can be configured to protect data going through the application layer, this may include data loss prevention, protocol filtering, intrusion detection and prevention, etc. Also, it can detect any malicious attacks directed through the application layer such as XSS, SQL Injections, Downloaders, etc. Also, they can provide SSL/TSL encryption.
  - **Logging and auditing:** Proxy servers also provides logging and auditting of traffic going through them, this can often make the job of checking security events, log attempts or possible attackers skeaning easier.

### Forward Proxy
- Also called outbound proxy.
  - When sending information to the internet, by using a forward proxy, once you send the information to the internet you're actually sending it to the Forward Proxy, which will provide the identity that will connect to the internet service. With this, what's connecting to the internet is actually the proxy server and you're just telling the proxy what to do.
- Key aspects of a forward proxy:
  - **Client Communication:** The proxy is transparent, it just handles communication as part of the default gateway of a host. Normally, the client is unaware that the proxy is the one connecting to the internet.
  - **Anonymity and Privacy:** Refer to the previous notes on "Proxy Servers".
  - **Caching:** Refer to the previous notes on "Proxy Servers".
  - **Content Filtering and Access Control:** Refer to the previous notes on "Proxy Servers".
  - **Network Optimization:** Forward proxies can optimize network performance by compressing data, removing unnecessary elements of websites and reduce the size of transferred data.
  - **Security:** Same as stated in the Application Layer Security feature in Proxy Servers. Forward Proxies are a barrier between the client and the internet. Any network traffic going through the proxy server can be analyzed and discarded if any malicious intent is identified. Also, they can provide encryption through SSL/TLS.
  - **Logging and Auditing:** Refer to the previous notes on "Proxy Servers".

### Reverse Proxy
- Acts as intermediary for inbound network traffic.
  - It sits between the clients on the internet and the webservers or publicly accessible server of a private network.
- The reverse proxy server receives information on behalf of the servers and sends back information to the clients.
- The reverse proxy acts as a middleman, capturing and handling client requests but ultimately communicating the response back from the web server.
- Some features of a Reverse Proxy Server:
  - **Client Communication:** When a user requests resource from a web server, a reverse proxy will receive this information and "speak" with the web servers to provide back a response to the client. In this example, a client is not communicating directly with the web server but with the reverse proxy assigned.
  - **Load Balancing:** It's a good feature for the reverse proxy servers. When a reverse proxy server receives some information, it will try to balance it through the available backend servers and with this, accomplish a load balancing. The balancing occurs depending on the algorithm used to balance them.
  - **SSL/TLS termination:** When a reverse proxy receives encrypted data, it can decrypt it and send it to the available backend servers, then once the request is being responded and the proxy receives the unencrypted data, it can encrypt the data and then send it back to the client. With this, you can off some load from the backend servers.
  - **Caching:** Reverse proxies can also cache information sent from the client, this way when a client requests something that is already IN the cache storage, it can offer it immediately instead of talking with the backend services. With this, backend services can chill for a bit.
  - **Security:** Reverse proxies can mitigate malicious intentions against web servers, including injection of malware or DDoS attacks.
  - **Application Layer Security:** Those proxies can inspect incoming data from the application layer and filter them based on the content, including attacks.
  - **Logging and Auditing:** Keeps log of incoming requests, backend servers usage and communication logs. This can be used for troubleshooting, compliance checkouts, security monitoring and audits, etc.
  - **Web Server Shielding:** Backend servers are protected as the main face of the services is the proxy server. With this, clients have access to the IP of the reverse proxy server instead of the inside backend servers.

### Cisco WSA
- Cisco Web Security Appliance.
  - Hardware or software-based application that focus on the security side of websites.
  - It helps filter content, and evade attack attempts.
- It's a Cisco version of a Proxy Server.
- Features of the Cisco WSA:
  - **Web Filtering:** Enables organization and websites to use content-filters for websites. It uses various techniques such as URL Filtering or Web Ratings to allow or block access to specific websites. With this, you can allow network using the WSA to block certain websites, prevent malicious injected websites, forbbiden or non-appropriate websites too.
  - **Malware Protection:** Includes robust techniques used to protect networks against malware attacks such as viruses, worms, injections, etc. It uses real-time threat intelligence to detect malicious content.
  - **Data Loss Prevention (DLP):** It can include a function to prevent data loss by not allowing websites to transmt any sensitive data, or in general, data that should be not exchanged such as PII, medical records, credit card numbers, etc.
  - **Secure Web Gateway:** It allows a secure communication between clients and web server by encrypting and unencrypting data using the SSL/TSL protocols. It helps to prevent malware hidden in encrypted packets.
  - **Reporting and Analytics:** Allows a complete reporting and analytics functionality to provide better logging, future analysis of malicious content.
  - **Integration with Cisco Security Solutions:** WSA can work along with other solutions such as the Cisco Advanced Malware Protection (AMP), Cisco Identity Services Engine (ISE), Cisco Security Intelligence Operation (SIO), etc. With this functionality, you can have a greater management over the security solutions and the network itself. Also, it's more secure regarding Cisco systems.
  - **Scalability and Performance:** The Cisco WSA is designed to offer a performance improvement by handling high volumes of traffic and large user populations. It also offers clustering and load balancing to improve availability in enterprise networks.
  - **Centralized Management:** Cisco includes a centralized management tool, called Cisco Security Management Appliance, which from you can manage all the rest of the Cisco appliances.

# Honeypots
- Mechanism used to identify, detect and capture attackers.
  - It's a decoy trap designed to attract attackers and discover more about their techniques, methods, operating systems, etc.
- A honeypot is designed to lure the attackers into vulnerable or looking-like vulnerable sections of your system, application, network, etc.
- When designing a honeypot, the main idea is to make it as real as possible and with some vulnerabilities that can let the investigators know about the attackers methods.
- Also, it should be always prompting the attackers away from the important resources, data, or systems.
- With a honeypot, you want to capture the attackers information like what has they done to get in a system, what have they attempted or other important information that can help an organization with future assessments.
- Also, it should be time-consumable so defenders may have time to detect and react to the attacker.

# Intrusion Detection/Prevention System
- Security System designed to analyze network traffic and capture malicious data attempting to gain access to a network.
### Intrusion Detection System (IDSs)
- System used to passively detect a network malicious packet trying to reach a network.
- When the IDS detects a malicious packets, it logs the activity and notifies the network administrators.
- IDSs can't protect against the malware itself but only notify network administrators.
- It just takes a copy of the traffic and analyzes, once something malicious is detected then administrators are notified.
- With this being said, IDSs can't stop the malicious thingy and it can still its final destination.

### Intrusion Prevention System (IPSs)
- Takes automated actions based on several rules and stops the detected malicious traffic.
- It's inline, so it analyzes anything that goes through it and when something wrong has been spotted, the traffic is blocked, dropped or the device that the packet is destined to, is then modified to prevent the attack.

### Network Based and Host Based IDS/IPS
- **Network-Based IDS/IPS:** Systems are placed in keypoints along a network infrastructure, it may be outside a network segment, or next to certain important devices, etc. It's just IDS/IPS being placed in a key point inside a network infrastructure.
- **Host-Based IDS/IPS:** These are based on each host itself, the main focus is to help the host maintain a secure environment, whatever the reasons these are.

### Signature-Based and Behavioral-Based Detection
- **Signatured-Based Detection:** It uses a database of attacks, malicious injections and malicious traffic and then compares any incoming traffic with this database. Signature-based detection is valid against known attacks as it compares what's happening with storaged data, but may let not-known or new attacks bypass the system.
- **Behavioral-Based Detection:** It uses a baseline behavior line that in case of deviations from that line, it detects it as a possible intrusion. It's useful to detect zero-day attacks.