# The CIA Triad
- Model that represents security principles:
  - C stands for Confidentiality.
  - I stands for Integrity.
  - A stands for Availability.
- Adhering to these, you can achieve the pillars of the security.
  - Information Security in this case.

### Confidentiality
- Only authorized individuals can see protected content.
  - Authorized means individuals with right access to systems and data viewing.
- Only these certain individuals will be able to see the protected content.
  - You can encrypt data to avoid interception and push confidentiality further in.
  - You can block access to data that should only be seen by authorized individuals.

### Integrity
- Based in accuracy and data authenticity.
- It's abount knowing that data hasn't been tampered or altered.
  - The same information that goes out of a network, reaches the other end of the network without alterations.
- Examples of this can be:
  - Using software to compare data before and after transmission.
  - Hashing data and send it to be comparable.
- In short words, anything that can help data remain the same, unmodified and unaltered.
  - Like hashing data that will be in rest.
    - With this, you can compare the hashes of the data before making it transit.

### Availability
- Based in warranty.
- Data is available when and where needed.
  - It's functioning as it should be, so it's available.
  - Reach this avoiding single point of faiulre.
    - Backup data in case of data loss. 
    - Using redundant paths through network.
    - Have power supplies.
- It's about having resources, assets or data always accessible when needed and where needed.

# Common Security Terms
Refer to the **Table 1-2**, following text is displayed in format of TERM | DEFINITION | EXAMPLES.
- Vulnerability | Weakness in systems that if exploited, could jeopardize the CIA of systems | Zero-day vulnerabilities, unpatched systems, open and non-utilized ports, unencrypted network transmissions, etc.
- Exploit | Anything that can take advantage of a vulnerability | SQL Injections, input validation, Cross-site scripting (XSS), Privilege escalation, RCE, etc.
- Threat | Anything or anyone with possibilities to exploit system vulnerabilities | Malware, ransomware, viruses, trojans, worms, insider and outsiders threats, botnets, etc.
- Risks | Probability of threats exploiting vulnerabilities of a system | Quantitative Risk Assessment and Qualitative Risk Assessment.
- Hardening | Fix vulnerabilities that could be exploited by threats in a system | OS Hardening, Network Hardening, Endpoint Hardening, Application Hardening, etc.
- Defense-In-Depth | Strategy with multiple layers of security applied to systems | Packet filtering using ACLs, if accepted then redirectioned to a firewall to be applied other filters, if accepted then paseed to IDS/IPS and so on. You have multiple layers of security applied to certain systems.
- Attack Vector | Method used by cybercriminals to explot vulnerabilities | DDoS, phishing, social engineering, etc.

# Types of Attackers and Their Reason for Attacks
- Cybercriminals can be tagged by different meanings:
  - Cybercriminals working for money.
  - Cybercriminals working for fame or enhancement.
  - Cybercriminals working for anything that encourages them, such as politics or activist movements.
- **Recreational Attacker:** Attackers with recreational purposes, often attacks systems and exploits vulnerabilities without financial expectations. The only thing a recreational attacker wants is learn, practice and expand their capabilities and skills.
- **Script Kiddie:** Use tools that are reachable in the clearnet and dark web to exploit systems and potentially advance and increase their attacking skills. They are the early stages of cyber attackers and will only use what's in their toolbox. They often reach certain points and then don't move further as their knowledge is very limited. Protecting from these is a good way to close a lot of possible cybersecurity-related issues with organizations.
- **Cybercriminal or Organized Crime:** Person or group attacking with financial gain expectations. It doesn't matter if it's a phishing attack, a ransomware attack or anything else, their end-goal is to have financial gains.
- **Hacktivists:** Attacks for social or politic purposes. They have an agenda, a cause mostly politically biased that they fight with digital disobedience. 
- **Insider:** Threats to organizations that can act inside of them. They can cause intentional or unintentional damages to this organizations. It can be either a current employee which accidentally deletes crucial information, or disgruntled employees with vengance intention. 
- **State-sponsored attacker/nation-state attacker/cyberterrorist:** Cyberterrorist is a name too. Attackers that act with support from their country to attack others. These are characterized for having unlimited resources and can highly leverage and use sophisticated attacks.
- **Terrorist:** Person or group with political or religious beliefs that want to cause harm to other people.
- **Hackers:** Anyone with skills and knowledge enough to exploit vulnerabilities in systems.
- **White hacker, or ethical hacker:** Ethical hacker using their skills for good. Usually contracted by organizations to lawfully discover vulnerabilities in systems and assess them.
- **Black hat, or unethical hacerk:** Unethical hacekrs using their skills for bad. Their end goal is to cause harm or obtain financial gain. They work with cybercriminal organizations, or other hacktivists.
- **Gray hat hacker:** Hackers that use their skills for good or bad, depending on how you see it. They unlawfully attack systems and tries to find vulnerabilities, then calls them out and even recommend potential fixes to these. However, they were never allowed to do that and that makes them gray. They do not intend to cause harm or gain finances.

# Code of Ethics
- Guidelines cybersecurity professional follows.
  - These guidelines sets you a path on what's wrong and not wrong.
- Frameworks are used to set these guidelines:
  - Security Incident Management Maturity Model (SIM3).
  - CSIRT maturity assessment model.
  - Global Forum on Cyber Expertise (GFCE).
  - Etc.
- These models will help you set these guidelines.
- List of things you might want to consider for your code of ethics:
  - Legal standard and how everyone complies with them.
  - How human rights will be respected.
  - How society will be protected.
  - Plan for disclosing vulnerabilities.
  - How privacy will be up-held based on need-to-know approachs.
  - Etc.